                                Traffic Impact and Access Study
                                Technical Appendix ­ Vol. 1 of 2




Riverside MBTA Station
Redevelopment
           Newton,
           Massachusetts



       Prepared for   BH Normandy Riverside, LLC
                      The Walsh Company
                      99 Summer Street
                      Boston, MA 02110

       Prepared by          /Vanasse Hangen Brustlin, Inc.

                      Transportation, Land Development, Environmental Services
                      101 Walnut Street
                      P.O. Box 9151
                      Watertown, Massachusetts 02472
                      617.924.1770


                      February 2012
                                       Appendix

Alternatives Analysis

Study Area Intersection Descriptions

Observed Traffic Volume Data
             ATR Data
             TMC Data

Motor Vehicle Crash Rate Worksheets

Existing Public Transportation Information

Site Traffic
               Trip Generation
               Trip Distribution

Operational Analyses
             Intersection Capacity Analysis
             Weave Capacity Analyses
             Diverge Capacity Analyses
             Merge Capacity Analyses

Roundabout Fact Sheet

Event Day Operational Analyses

Site Circulation and Operations

Construction Cost Estimates
Alternatives Analysis
Alternative Access Evaluation
                                              Access to the site is a vital element to the success of the proposed redevelopment
                                              project (the Project) and as such, numerous alternatives of varying scale have been
                                              evaluated in detail over the last three years. As described previously, Riverside
                                              Station is currently served by a single full access driveway located along Grove Street
                                              approximately 1,000 feet to the east of the existing Route 128/I-95 Northbound Ramp
                                              to Grove Street. The existing roadway system in the vicinity of the Project represents
                                              a complex network of interchange ramps, weave sections, and intersections that
                                              provide access to and from one of the busiest corridors in the state of Massachusetts
                                              (Route 128/I-95). Careful consideration of maintaining and enhancing the mobility
                                              in this area and accommodating project traffic is essential.

                                              Throughout the development of the Project and the preparation of the various
                                              iterations of Traffic Impact and Access Study (TIAS) the Proponent has participated
                                              in numerous meetings with MassDOT, MBTA, Federal Highway Administration
                                              (FHWA), City of Newton, and interested local residents. Meetings regularly held
                                              with MassDOT have engaged representatives from all levels of the MassDOT
                                              organization from the Secretary of Transportation to technical staff. Many of the
                                              early discussions were considered working sessions where ideas were exchanged
                                              and the general feasibility of alternative improvements were discussed. All parties
                                              that participated in the meetings, as represented above, provided useful suggestions
                                              and ideas, many of which have been vetted through this process. This process has
                                              continued in a substantial way since the filing of the ENF document. For the purpose
                                              of demonstrating and evaluating various alternatives and improvements that have
                                              been considered, this section has been prepared to present access and improvement
                                              alternatives that have been considered, evaluated, and discussed with MassDOT,
                                              MBTA, FHWA, City of Newton, and interested local residents.


                                              Throughout the many discussions in the City, there were several themes that were
                                              heard regularly and that inspired a lot of review and consideration. These include
                                              the following:


                                                      Direct Access from Route 128 Northbound (NB) to the Site is needed, or
                                                      alternative access to the site is necessary to minimize Grove Street traffic.
                                                      Minimizing potential traffic along Grove Street and minimizing widening
                                                      necessary along Grove Street should be a priority.
                                                      Improving the Pedestrian Experience along the Corridor is necessary.

                                              While there were many other comments and considerations mentioned, these three
                                              things were very consistently the topic of discussion at nearly all the meetings in the
                                              City where the Proponent was a participant. As a result, the Proponent has made
                                              great efforts to ensure that these and other requests are fully considered and



\\vhb\proj\Wat-
LD\10865.00\reports\TIAS\Alternative Access   4-1 Traffic and Transportation
Evaluation-02-01-12.doc
                                              incorporated into the proposed plan to the extent possible. Since the issuance of the
                                              Certificate on the DEIR, the Proponent has continued discussions on access
                                              alternatives with MassDOT and has further evaluated, in a substantial way, potential
                                              site access opportunities. The following provides a summary of the primary access
                                              alternatives that were developed based on communication with the City and
                                              MassDOT. Conceptual exhibits of these alternatives are also provided in this section
                                              of the document. It is important to note that the Proponent has been responsive to
                                              citizen concerns regarding project density and has reduced the development
                                              program on four separate occasions. The overall size of the project has been
                                              decreased by approximately 34 percent (299,000 sf) since our initial ENF filing yet the
                                              initiatives relating to improved site access and off-site improvements have been
                                              largely maintained and only adjusted as necessary to reflect the reduction in traffic
                                              projections that is a byproduct program reductions. Also included in this section is a
                                              brief summary of other alternatives that were considered early on in the Project
                                              development but which were dismissed by the Proponent, MassDOT, and the City of
                                              Newton because of general infeasibility, potential impacts to area residents and
                                              businesses, and limited benefit to the area.

                                              For the purposes of consistency between documents, the alternatives naming
                                              convention presented in this document is consistent with that outlined in the
                                              previously prepared ENF/DEIR for the project, except where noted.

                                              DEIR ALTERNATIVE DISCUSSION

                                              OPTION A: RIGHT-IN/RIGHT-OUT ACCESS-COLLECTOR DISTRIBUTOR (C-
                                              D) ROAD

                                              This alternative has been updated based on the revised/reduced development
                                              program and is included in the main body of the Traffic Impact and Access Report as
                                              it is considered by the Proponent and MassDOT as one of several potential access
                                              alternatives for further consideration.

                                              OPTIONS B-1 AND B-2: RIGHT-IN/FULL EGRESS OFF OF C-D ROAD


                                              Options B-1 and B-2 entail providing a right-in/left and right-out driveway off of the
                                              C-D Road that runs parallel to the Route 128 NB Ramp system north of Grove Street.
                                              A two-way connection of the northbound on-ramp between Grove Street and the
                                              proposed driveway would be constructed. Access off of Grove Street would be
                                              maintained and improved with the installation of a traffic signal and minor
                                              improvements. Modern roundabouts would be installed at the intersections of
                                              Grove Street at the Route 128 NB and SB Ramps.

                                              Egress from the site along the C-D Road was evaluated two ways; first as free-flow,
                                              grade-separated layout (illustrated in Figure 4.19); and second as an at grade
                                              intersection. The at-grade option was brought forward based on informal discussion




\\vhb\proj\Wat-
LD\10865.00\reports\TIAS\Alternative Access   4-2 Traffic and Transportation
Evaluation-02-01-12.doc
                                              with MassDOT since the filing of the ENF. They have consistently questioned the
                                              justification/need of a grade separated configuration as a result of likely traffic
                                              volume demands. Further discussions with MassDOT concluded that the grade
                                              separated configuration is not justified, so Option B-1 was eliminated from further
                                              review. These discussions also concluded that the at-grade egress is a viable option.
                                              As such, Option B-2 has been updated based on the revised/reduced development
                                              program and is included in the main body of the Traffic Impact and Access Report as
                                              it is considered by the Proponent and MassDOT as one of several potential access
                                              alternatives for further consideration.


                                              While Options B-1 and B-2 address many of the community concerns, there were still
                                              some in the community that wanted to see a direct access into and out of the site
                                              from Route 128 and as a result substantial time and resources have gone into
                                              reviewing the feasibility of such an option. Initial evaluation of alternatives
                                              involving direct access from Route 128 NB revealed that there are some significant
                                              challenges associated with implementing a ramp that could operate safely and
                                              efficiently and satisfy design standards and criteria for MassDOT and FHWA while
                                              working with site constraints. To get a better understanding of the overall feasibility
                                              of direct access, VHB conducted a more detailed investigation of the topography and
                                              the potential horizontal and vertical alignment of ramps into and out of the site,
                                              which is summarized in Options C-1 and C-2 below.

                                              OPTIONS C-1 AND C-2: DIRECT ACCESS FROM ROUTE 128 NORTHBOUND
                                              (MAINTAINING EXISTING NORTHBOUND RAMP FROM GROVE STREET)


                                              This alternative involves the construction of a new ramp that provides direct access
                                              into the site from Route 128 NB. This ramp would be off of the existing high speed
                                              Exit 23-24-25 ramp. Several configurations of this type of enhancement have been
                                              considered and discussed in detail with MassDOT and preliminarily with FHWA.
                                              The two most vetted versions of this plan are presented below. The first option
                                              considered, C-1, attempts to provide a connection to the internal site access roadway
                                              while being somewhat respectful to the proposed site plan and more importantly the
                                              existing MBTA rail storage area and maintenance facility which is to remain
                                              relatively unchanged as part of the proposed plan. The second option considered, C-
                                              2, considers a more standard type of ramp design that is directly responsive to the
                                              comments and concerns of MassDOT and FHWA on option C-1, which MassDOT
                                              has said is not approvable.


                                              Option C-1 is presented as Figure 4.21 ­ (consistent with naming convention
                                              established in the DEIR). ­ Option C-1 and is discussed below:




\\vhb\proj\Wat-
LD\10865.00\reports\TIAS\Alternative Access   4-3 Traffic and Transportation
Evaluation-02-01-12.doc
                                              Components

                                                      Supplemental right-in/right-out Project/MBTA access would be provided
                                                      by way of a new ramp directly off of the Exit 23-24-25 ramp into the internal
                                                      site roadway.
                                                      Full Project/MBTA access would be provided by way of a new signalized
                                                      driveway along the north side of Grove Street.
                                                      The intersections of Grove Street at the Route 128 NB and SB Ramps would
                                                      be controlled by modern roundabouts.
                                                      Access points between the Route 128 NB Ramps and C-D Road connections
                                                      to Recreation Road would be reconfigured. Access to Grove Street and to
                                                      Route 128 NB and C-D Road would be required through the internal site
                                                      roadway.
                                                      Existing Grove Street/Route 128 NB ramps would be removed and access to
                                                      Route 128 NB and C-D Road would be required through the internal site
                                                      roadway
                                                      Grove Street Bridge over Route 128 would need to be reconfigured within
                                                      the existing cross section to accommodate four travel lanes.
                                                      Requires a permit to break the no-access line along the Route 128 NB ramps;
                                                      Will require review by the FHWA.


                                              Evaluation Summary

                                              Similar to Options A and B-2, Option C-1 provides the benefits of landscaped islands
                                              on Grove Street in the areas of the proposed turning lanes, which contributes to the
                                              aesthetics of the corridor and has traffic calming properties. Option C-1 would also
                                              provide similar benefits with the proposed roundabouts at the Route 128 ramp
                                              terminals and the pedestrian amenities on and off site.


                                              Based on evaluation of existing grades along the Exit 23-24-25 ramp and the existing
                                              C-D Road leading from Grove Street north, maintaining the existing Route 128 NB
                                              on-ramp from Grove Street is very likely infeasible due to the required height of the
                                              new bridge that would need to be constructed over the Direct Access Ramp to the
                                              site. At that height (16 feet 6 inches), the reconstructed C-D Road would not be able
                                              to descend at an acceptable grade without impacting the vertical clearance under the
                                              existing railroad bridge. This would require the demolition of the existing railroad
                                              bridge, which some residents in the community have expressed, is not desirable, as it
                                              could potentially be used as a bike trail in the future. Although it has not been
                                              evaluated, it may be possible to raise the former railroad bridge to improve the
                                              clearance shortage, but further investigation of alternative constraints suggest that
                                              this overall plan is very likely not a viable option for this and other reasons as
                                              expressed below.




\\vhb\proj\Wat-
LD\10865.00\reports\TIAS\Alternative Access   4-4 Traffic and Transportation
Evaluation-02-01-12.doc
                                              From a traffic volume perspective, the form of direct access ramp in Option C-1 does
                                              not alleviate nearly as much demand at the existing Station at Riverside site entrance
                                              as Option A, B-1, or B-2. In fact, this form of direct access ramp essentially only
                                              serves roughly 30% of the site generated traffic entering the site versus 76% or more
                                              in the new ramp connections proposed in Option A and B-2. This is because Option
                                              C-1 can only be used by vehicles traveling on Route 128 NB. All other site generated
                                              traffic and MBTA traffic would have to access the site via Grove Street, which results
                                              in approximately 70% of all traffic entering the site using the existing MBTA
                                              driveway. This is in stark contrast to the community's desire to minimize traffic
                                              along Grove Street in this area. Furthermore, in order to accommodate 70% of the site
                                              traffic at the existing MBTA driveway, significant widening would be required on
                                              Grove Street, which far exceeds the widening proposed under Options B-1 and B-2
                                              and is not consistent with the City's desires to limit the width of Grove Street along
                                              the Riverside Station frontage.


                                              Based on consultations with MassDOT and a preliminary consultation with FHWA,
                                              there is a strong feeling that both the existing northbound off and on ramps would
                                              need to be eliminated to have any chance of justification for the new ramp, due in
                                              part to ramp spacing criteria and traffic volume demands. FHWA has eight criteria
                                              that need to be satisfied in order to justify the need for a new interstate ramp, the first
                                              of which is related to whether or not the existing ramps can accommodate the
                                              existing volume and if they can be modified, in present form, to accommodate the
                                              operational and safety needs. The existing volumes on the Route 128 NB off ramp
                                              are not high enough to justify the presence of two ramps, and as such, MassDOT and
                                              FHWA have made it clear that they would require closure of the existing ramp if all
                                              other constraints and design challenges could be met to allow such a project to
                                              commence. With the closure of the existing northbound ramps, all Route 128 traffic
                                              coming from the south to Grove Street or traffic on Grove Street headed north to
                                              Route 128 or the Mass Pike would then have to travel through the Project site to get
                                              on and off Route 128, which would further strain the existing Riverside Station
                                              driveway, and place a high volume of traffic at this driveway, nearly a 1,000 feet to
                                              the east of the existing ramp. To accommodate this increase in volume at this
                                              location, substantial widening would be required, well beyond that currently
                                              proposed in Option A and B-2. This would mean that traffic from the west heading
                                              to the ramp and all Route 128 NB traffic that exits on the new ramp and is oriented to
                                              the west would have to traverse the section of Grove Street between the Hotel Indigo
                                              and the existing Station at Riverside driveway which is inconsistent with the goals
                                              established by the City for minimizing future width and utilization of this section of
                                              roadway.


                                              From a geometric standpoint, the geometry associated with this form of direct access
                                              displayed in Figure 4.21 - Access Alternative ­ Option C-1, has been described as
                                              inadequate by MassDOT and FHWA because it would be a high speed interstate
                                              ramp and design criteria for decision distance and radii cannot be met while tying
                                              into the internal site roadway. In order to satisfy the design criteria, the ramp would




\\vhb\proj\Wat-
LD\10865.00\reports\TIAS\Alternative Access   4-5 Traffic and Transportation
Evaluation-02-01-12.doc
                                              have to depart the C-D road further north creating more decision distance, and a
                                              larger radius would be required, which ultimately would penetrate much further
                                              into the site and the existing MBTA Rail Yard/Maintenance Facility. Representatives
                                              of the MBTA have stated that such an alignment is unacceptable as there is no way to
                                              reconfigure existing operations to accommodate the required change and
                                              modifications to the maintenance. In addition, work within the MBTA maintenance
                                              facilities is not part of the MBTA's Riverside Redevelopment initiative.


                                              Furthermore, even if an acceptable alignment of this ramp could be achieved,
                                              MassDOT/FHWA stated that they would not allow any access points from the ramp
                                              into the site, which ultimately defeats the purpose of the direct access ramp, meaning
                                              that all ramp volume would be sent to Grove Street and then have to access the site
                                              through another separate access driveway. Option C-1 suggests that the ramp would
                                              connect directly to the internal site roadway which MassDOT and FHWA have
                                              suggested would not be allowed. Based on the feedback received from MassDOT,
                                              FHWA, and the MBTA on this layout, Option C-1 is not a feasible access plan and is
                                              not necessary given the benefits associated with, and the general feasibility that exists
                                              with Option A and B-2, all of which can improve existing infrastructure to meet the
                                              area needs. In addition, Option C-1 does not satisfy the primary concerns of the
                                              community and in some areas, it likely exacerbates them.

                                              Many of the constraining features can be summarized as follows:
                                                  Configuration of ramp ingress and egress presented in Option C-1 does not meet
                                                  minimum design criteria for a high-speed ramp. Adjustments that would have
                                                  to be made to meet the criteria would include the following at a minimum:
                                                  o   Increase decision distance between C-D Road exit from Route 128/I-95
                                                      Mainline and new ramp ingress. This would push the departure from the
                                                      Exit 23-24-25 ramp substantially further north which would result in
                                                      substantial impact to Charles River watershed, substantially impact the
                                                      existing MBTA rail facility storage and maintenance facilities.
                                                  o   Increase radius for ramp to provide gentle transition and accommodate high
                                                      speed movement. This would cause substantial impacts Charles River
                                                      watershed and the existing MBTA rail facility storage and maintenance
                                                      facilities.
                                                  o   No access from the Ramp to the site would be allowed, it would connect only
                                                      to Grove Street. This would defeat the purpose the improvement from the
                                                      City perspective and require that access to the site be provided from a
                                                      separate driveway on Grove Street.
                                                  Unlikely that the existing northbound on-ramp from Grove Street to C-D Road
                                                  could be maintained in its current position due to grade challenges.
                                                  Removal of the existing northbound off-ramp to Grove Street would be required.
                                                  As a by-product of all of the above, substantial traffic volume increases would be
                                                  expected along Grove Street between the new ramp intersection with Grove




\\vhb\proj\Wat-
LD\10865.00\reports\TIAS\Alternative Access   4-6 Traffic and Transportation
Evaluation-02-01-12.doc
                                                  Street and points west. This is counter to one of the main goals of improvement
                                                  plans being sought.


                                              A conceptual improvement plan that attempts to address some of the fundamental
                                              flaws of Option C-1 described above has been evaluated. The resulting concept
                                              Option C-2 was presented to the City of Newton at the June 2010 Community
                                              Meeting at the Williams School. The Proponent acknowledges that development of a
                                              direct access plan that is responsive to the concerns expressed by MassDOT/FHWA
                                              results in a concept that is not consistent with the desires of City representatives who
                                              have requested inclusion of this type of plan. Option C-1 is more in-line with that
                                              which is desired by some in the community but vetting of this concept has
                                              determined that it is not a viable plan for further consideration for all the reasons
                                              stated. For the purpose of demonstrating a direct access plan that would be
                                              responsive to the concerns raised by MassDOT/FHWA, refer to Figure 4.22 - Access
                                              Alternative ­ Option C-2. As demonstrated in Figure 4.22, the following concerns of
                                              Option C-1 were addressed, including:


                                                  Ramp spacing was increased to more desirable levels for high-speed ramp (800
                                                  feet provided)
                                                  Larger radius for more desirable (45 mph) design criteria
                                                  Ramp touches down on Grove Street without any direct access to the Station at
                                                  Riverside site.


                                              As demonstrated in Figure 4.22 - Access Alternative ­ Option C-2, the direct access
                                              ramp configuration (Option C-2) would require substantial modifications from that
                                              presented in Figure 4.21 - Access Alternative ­ Option C-1, which is generally
                                              consistent with community desires for a direct access plan. The impacts associated
                                              with a plan that is responsive to MassDOT and FHWA concerns includes substantial
                                              impacts to the Charles River Watershed, ramp routing would bisect the existing rail
                                              storage and maintenance facility which is to remain relatively unchanged as part of
                                              the Project, and no access directly to the site would be available. As a result, many of
                                              the basic desires of a direct access plan are lost if such a plan could be implemented.
                                              Additional features that make it undesirable include:


                                                  Direct access to the site would not be possible as no break in the ramp would be
                                                  allowed before it connects with Grove Street.
                                                  Justification for a second ramp to highway system is not apparent. As a result,
                                                  this would have to be a "replacement" ramp system. Since such a ramp would
                                                  touch down on Grove Street east of the existing ramp location. It would
                                                  encourage more traffic flow on the section of Grove Street where the community
                                                  requires traffic to be managed, between the Hotel Indigo and the Station at
                                                  Riverside access driveway.
                                                  Since it is a replacement ramp, the existing northbound exit and on-ramp would
                                                  have to be eliminated.



\\vhb\proj\Wat-
LD\10865.00\reports\TIAS\Alternative Access   4-7 Traffic and Transportation
Evaluation-02-01-12.doc
                                                  Grove Street between the Hotel Indigo and the Proposed Ramp location would
                                                  have to be substantially widened to accommodate the volume anticipated, which
                                                  is much more widening than required under Options A, B-1, and B-2.


                                              As previously mentioned, FHWA has eight criteria that need to be satisfied in order
                                              to justify the need for a new interstate ramp, the first of which is related to whether
                                              or not the existing ramps can accommodate the existing volume and if they can be
                                              modified, in present form, to accommodate the operational and safety needs. Since it
                                              has been demonstrated in Options A, B-1, and B-2 that the existing infrastructure can
                                              be improved, substantially, to accommodate project and area improvement needs,
                                              adequate justification for a new ramp in the configuration shown in Figure 4.21 -
                                              Access Alternative ­ Option C-1 and Figure 4.22 - Access Alternative ­ Option C-2 is not
                                              apparent.

                                              OPTION D


                                              Option D, as included in the ENF was a version of Option C-1 and due to
                                              infeasibility conclusions associated with Option C-1, described above, has not been
                                              included in this alternatives assessment.


                                              OPTION E: Recreation Road (Two-Way Access)


                                              Potential site access from Recreation Road has been considered as part of the DEIR
                                              assessment. As part of this assessment, potential traffic diversion, and geometric
                                              considerations were evaluated.


                                              Access to the site from Recreation Road from a potential traffic volume perspective
                                              has been assessed. If access were available through Recreation Road, it is likely that
                                              only a very small percentage of site traffic volume would utilize this route given its
                                              inconvenience for highway traffic (I-90 eastbound and Route 128 southbound). For
                                              traffic oriented to the site from both I-90 eastbound and Route 128 southbound (SB)
                                              to gain access to Recreation Road, they would have to exit the highway system, travel
                                              on Route 30 westbound to Park Road southbound. Reviewing in detail the required
                                              route, including two traffic signals, and the distance of travel necessary, it does not
                                              appear practical that any highway traffic would follow this route to enter the site,
                                              given that more direct routes of staying on the free-flow highway system are
                                              available. Refer to Figure 4.23 - Access Alternative ­ Option E ­ Travel Distance
                                              Comparison, which demonstrates the routes that would be required to access the site
                                              via Recreation Road from I-90 eastbound and Route 128 SB. With this in mind, the
                                              only traffic that may find such an access route suitable may be traffic that is oriented
                                              to Route 30 to the west of the I-90/Route 128 Interchange. For the purpose of
                                              understanding what level of traffic this might include, VHB reviewed the site
                                              generated traffic distributions during the peak hour periods and have estimated the
                                              traffic that would be oriented in that direction. Based on this assessment the peak




\\vhb\proj\Wat-
LD\10865.00\reports\TIAS\Alternative Access   4-8 Traffic and Transportation
Evaluation-02-01-12.doc
                                              hour traffic volumes are estimated at approximately 20-30 vehicles during the
                                              morning peak hour and 20-30 vehicles during the weekday evening peak hour. It
                                              should be understood that direct access from the site to Recreation Road (site egress)
                                              will be available under the proposed plan.


                                              Modifications to the existing ramp system to accommodate two way access to the site
                                              from Recreation Road would require justification, in terms of potential usage in order
                                              for MassDOT and FHWA to consider the break in access that would be required to
                                              enter the site from this path. As demonstrated above, the anticipated peak hour
                                              volume that may consider this path a viable option is minimal and very likely does
                                              not justify further consideration. However, VHB has assessed such an access plan
                                              from a geometric perspective to see if it could work, if volumes were justifiable.
                                              Based on this review there are a number of constraining features which are outlined
                                              below:


                                                      Width of existing bridge connecting C-D Road to Recreation Road is not
                                                      wide enough to accommodate bi-directional flow with appropriate median
                                                      separation
                                                      Width under the former train bridge is not wide enough to accommodate bi-
                                                      direction flow with appropriate median separation.
                                                      Access from a southbound connector roadway into the site would be in
                                                      conflict with the proposed egress from the site that connects to the C-D Road
                                                      and ultimately to the regional roadway system. Short of creating some form
                                                      of grade separation to get the southbound connection over or under the
                                                      access ramp, there is no reasonable way to provide the needed connection.
                                                      Given the peak hour traffic that would be anticipated to use this movement
                                                      justification for a signal or grade separation to accommodate such movement
                                                      is not supported.
                                                      Costs to offset the many constraints would be substantial if they could be
                                                      accomplished, and would not be justified based on the likely usage of such
                                                      an access.

                                              As a result of the circuitous routing, minor traffic usage that would be expected,
                                              substantial geometric constraints, and fact that such an access is very likely
                                              unjustifiable to MassDOT and FHWA and therefore un-approvable, this access
                                              alternative is infeasible. It should be noted, however that direct access from the site,
                                              egress, to Recreation Road will be available under Options A and B-2.

                                              OPTION F: Grove Street Access Only

                                              At the specific request of MassDOT, this alternative has been updated based on the
                                              revised/reduced development program and is included in the main body of the
                                              Traffic Impact and Access Report.




\\vhb\proj\Wat-
LD\10865.00\reports\TIAS\Alternative Access   4-9 Traffic and Transportation
Evaluation-02-01-12.doc
                                              Alternative Access/Improvement Comparative Matrix

                                              As required in the Secretary's Certificate on the ENF: "The alternatives analysis in the
                                              traffic study should be expanded and supplemented in the Draft EIR with more detailed
                                              information including: environmental impacts including land alteration, creation of
                                              impervious surfaces and wetlands impacts; impacts on traffic distribution, traffic flow and
                                              safety; consistency with FHWA and MassDOT design standards; and ability of each
                                              alternative to improve access to the site for alternative transportation including buses,
                                              bicycles and pedestrians." For the purpose of summarizing the potential benefits,
                                              detriments, and general feasibility of each access alternative that has been
                                              considered, a comparative matrix has been prepared that assesses a host of
                                              environmental, traffic, conformance, and cost parameters. Refer to Table A1 Alternate
                                              Access Option Comparison Matrix below:




\\vhb\proj\Wat-
LD\10865.00\reports\TIAS\Alternative Access   4-10 Traffic and Transportation
Evaluation-02-01-12.doc
    Table A-1 Alternate Access Option Comparison Matrix


                                                                                                                                                                                              Alternative
                                                                        Environmental Impacts                                                   Traffic Impacts                             Transportation    Consistent with MassDOT/FHWA Requirements       Costs

                                                                                                                Traffic      Traffic Increase      Grove Street                                                                                Addresses
                                                                                 Land           Impervious   Distribution      Grove Street       Width Change in             Operational                                      Justification     City
                                                                                                                                                                                              Benefits*
              Comparison Criteria                               Wetlands       Alteration         Surface      Impacts      (Indigo to MBTA)       Front of Site    Safety     Benefits                      Design Criteria      (need)       Concerns

  Option A - Right-in/Right-out CD Road                         No Impact        Minor            Minor         Minor            Minor                 Minor        Improve   Substantial     Substantial        Meets           Justified        Yes      Moderate

    Option B-1- Right-in/Left-Right-out
      CD Road (Grade Separated)                                No Impacts       Moderate         Moderate       Minor          Reduction               Minor        Improve   Substantial     Substantial        Meets           Justified        Yes      Substantial

   Option B-2- Right-in/Left-Right-out
CD Road (at Grade Signal or Stop Control)                      No Impacts       Moderate         Moderate       Minor          Reduction               Minor        Improve   Substantial     Substantial        Meets           Justified        Yes      Moderate


   Option F - Grove Street Only Access                         No Impacts       Moderate         Moderate     No Impact          Major                 Major        Unsafe       Minor          Minor            Meets           Justified         No      Minor


         Option C-1 - Direct Access
             (Non-Conforming)                                  No Impacts       Moderate         Moderate       Major            Major                 Major        Unsure       Minor          Minor        Does not meet     Not justified       No      Moderate

         Option C-2 - Direct Access
               (Conforming)                                   Major Impacts      Major            Major         Major            Major                 Major        Limited      Minor          Minor            Meets         Not justified       No      Major


     *Benefits of plan to improve non-vehicular access to site (buses/biles/peds)




     \\vhb\proj\Wat-
     LD\10865.00\reports\TIAS\Alternative Access   4-11 Traffic and Transportation
     Evaluation-02-01-12.doc
                                              As demonstrated in the table and discussed in detail in this section of the
                                              document, a wide variety of potential access and infrastructure improvements
                                              were considered further in the DEIR document. .



Other Alternatives Considered

                                              As mentioned at the beginning of this section, a number of alternatives were
                                              examined during the master plan development and dismissed for varying
                                              reasons by the Proponent, MassDOT, and the City of Newton. These alternatives
                                              have substantial feasibility issues, impact residential and existing businesses, and
                                              do not provide true benefits, and in some cases they do not satisfy many of the
                                              community's concerns that have since arisen during this collaborative process.
                                              However, it is important to provide this list of additional improvement ideas that
                                              were considered to demonstrate the level of effort that has been put forth and the
                                              range of options that were examined to arrive at the proposed mitigation
                                              program that is outlined in the TIAS.

                                              HALF CLOVERLEAF INTERCHANGE ­ ELIMINATE GROVE STREET NB
                                              RAMP

                                              This alternative involved the construction of a new ramp system that provides
                                              access between Route 128 NB and Grove Street. The existing Grove Street/Route
                                              128 NB ramp system would be eliminated.

                                              HALF CLOVERLEAF INTERCHANGE ­ MAINTAIN ROUTE 128 NB OFF-
                                              RAMP TO GROVE STREET

                                              This alternative involved the construction of a new ramp system that provides
                                              access between Route 128 NB and Grove Street. The existing Route 128 NB Off-
                                              Ramp to Grove Street would be maintained.

                                              HALF-CLOVERLEAF INTERCHANGE ­ CONSOLIDATE ROUTE 16 NB ON-
                                              RAMP

                                              This alternative involved the construction of a new ramp system that provides
                                              access between Route 128 NB and Grove Street. The existing Grove Street/Route
                                              128 NB ramp system would be eliminated. The existing Route 128 NB On-Ramp
                                              from Route 16 WB would be eliminated.

                                              C-D ROAD ACCESS ­ ONE-WAY RIGHT-IN/RIGHT-OUT (SIGNALS ON
                                              GROVE STREET)

                                              This alternative involved providing right-in/right-out ramps off of the C-D road
                                              that runs parallel to the Route 128 NB Ramp system north of Grove Street.



\\vhb\proj\Wat-
LD\10865.00\reports\TIAS\Alternative Access   4-12 Traffic and Transportation
Evaluation-02-01-12.doc
                                              Access off of Grove Street would be maintained. Traffic signals would be
                                              installed at the intersection of Grove Street at the Route 128 NB and SB Ramps.

                                              C-D ROAD ACCESS ­ TWO-WAY CONNECTION OF NORTHBOUND ON-
                                              RAMP WITH RIGHT-IN/LEFT AND RIGHT OUT (SIGNALS ON GROVE
                                              STREET)

                                              This alternative involved providing a right-in/left and right-out driveway off of
                                              the C-D road that runs parallel to the Route 128 NB Ramp system north of Grove
                                              Street. A two-way connection of the northbound on-ramp between Grove Street
                                              and the proposed driveway would be constructed. Access off of Grove Street
                                              would be maintained. Traffic signals would be installed at the intersection of
                                              Grove Street at the Route 128 NB and SB Ramps.

                                              GROVE STREET ACCESS ­ SITE DRIVE AT GROVE STREET AND
                                              CONSOLIDATE ROUTE 16 NB ON-RAMP

                                              This alternative involved providing full access to both the site and the MBTA
                                              station off of Grove Street. The existing Route 128 NB on-ramp from Route 16
                                              WB would be eliminated.

                                              NEW ROUTE 128 COLLECTOR-DISTRIBUTOR ROAD

                                              This alternative involved the construction of a new collector-distributor (C-D)
                                              road parallel to Route 128 NB between Route 16 and Recreation Road.



Summary

                                              As part of the development of the proposed mitigation plan, the Proponent has
                                              examined a wide range of access alternatives with varying degrees of feasibility
                                              and desirability. The Proponent has been involved in numerous meetings with
                                              the City of Newton, MassDOT, FHWA, MBTA, and the local community to come
                                              up with an access plan that will operate safely and efficiently and also satisfy the
                                              concerns of the community to the greatest extent possible. The alternatives
                                              evaluation summarized in this section demonstrates the iterative process that has
                                              been undertaken. Through this process and the assessment of each alternative in
                                              terms of its ability to provide efficient site access and address the community's
                                              concerns, Options A and B-2 have been identified as the alternatives that appear
                                              to offer the most improvement to safety and operations in the area, provide
                                              enhanced access to the site, are generally feasible and can be constructed within
                                              the highway layout or on land under the control of the project Proponent. While
                                              all the preliminary work that has occurred on this project to date has lead to
                                              these conclusions, there are still several levels of review where the plans will be
                                              further vetted, including formal design/review and permitting with MassDOT
                                              and FHWA.


\\vhb\proj\Wat-
LD\10865.00\reports\TIAS\Alternative Access   4-13 Traffic and Transportation
Evaluation-02-01-12.doc
Study Area Intersection Descriptions

Intersections
                      The following sections describe the study-area intersections in detail.



Washington Street (Route 16) at
Concord Street

                          Four-legged signalized intersection
                          Route 16 EB approach provides an exclusive left-turn lane and a
                          shared through/right-turn lane
                          Route 16 WB approach provides a shared left-turn/through lane and
                          a shared right-turn/through lane
                          Driveway northbound approach provides a single general purpose
                          lane
                          Concord Street southbound approach provides a single general
                          purpose lane
                          Sidewalks are provided along both sides of Route 16 and the east
                          side of Concord Street
                          Crosswalks are provided along the west and north legs of the
                          intersection
                          Land use in the area consists primarily of commercial properties
                      



Washington Street (Route 16) at
Grove Street

                          Four-legged unsignalized intersection
                          Route 16 EB approach provides a shared left-turn/through lane and
                          a shared right-turn/through lane.
                          Route 16 WB approach provides a shared left-turn/through lane and
                          a shared right-turn/through lane.
                          Driveway northbound approach provides a single general purpose
                          lane and is under STOP control, although a STOP-sign is not
                          provided
                          Grove Street southbound approach provides a single general
                          purpose lane and is under STOP control, although a STOP-sign is
                          not provided
                          Sidewalks are provided along both sides of Route 16
                          Crosswalks are provided along the east, west and north legs of the
                          intersection
                          Land use in the area consists primarily of commercial properties
                          On-street parking is allowed along Route 16 eastbound
                     



Concord Street at Hagar Road

                         Three-legged unsignalized intersection
                         Concord Street northbound approach provides a single general
                         purpose lane
                         Concord Street southbound approach provides a single general
                         purpose lane
                         Hagar Road westbound approach provides a single general purpose
                         lane and is under STOP-sign control
                         Sidewalks are provided along both sides of Hagar Road and the east
                         side of Concord Street
                         A faded crosswalk is provided across the east leg of the intersection
                         Land use in the area consists of St. Mary's cemetery, the Charles
                         River, and residential properties



Grove Street at Hagar Road and
Colgate Road

                         Four-legged unsignalized intersection under all-way stop control
                         Grove Street northbound approach provides a single general
                         purpose lane under STOP-sign control
                         Grove Street southbound approach provides a single general
                         purpose lane under STOP-sign control
                         Hagar Road eastbound approach provides a single general purpose
                         lane and is under STOP-sign control
                         Colgate Road westbound approach provides a single general
                         purpose lane and is under STOP-sign control
                         Grove Street south leg of the intersection accommodates one-way
                         travel only in the northbound direction
                         Sidewalks are provided along both sides of Grove Street and Hagar
                         Road
                         Crosswalks are provided across all legs of the intersection
                         Land use in the area consists primarily of residential properties



Grove Street at the Route 128
Southbound Ramps and Asheville
Road

                         Four-legged, offset, unsignalized intersection
                         Grove Street eastbound approach provides a shared left-
                         turn/through lane and a right-turn slip ramp to the Route 128
                         southbound ramp
                          Grove Street westbound approach provides a shared right-
                          turn/through lane and an exclusive left-turn lane
                          Route 128 southbound ramps approach provides a left-turn/through
                          lane under STOP-sign control and an exclusive right-turn slip ramp
                          under YIELD-sign control
                          Asheville Road southbound approach provides a single general
                          purpose lane under STOP control, although a STOP-sign is not
                          provided
                          A sidewalk is provided along the north side of Grove Street
                          Crosswalks are not provided at the intersection
                          Land use in the area consists primarily of residential properties



Grove Street at the Route 128
Northbound Ramps

                          Four-legged unsignalized intersection
                          Grove Street eastbound approach provides a single general purpose
                          lane
                          Grove Street westbound approach provides a through lane and a
                          right-turn slip ramp
                          The Route 128 Northbound Off-Ramp northbound approach
                          provides a left-turn/through lane under STOP-sign control and an
                          exclusive right-turn slip ramp under YIELD-sign control
                          Direction of travel along the Route 128 Northbound -On Ramp north
                          leg of the intersection is one-way in the northbound direction, away
                          from the intersection
                          Sidewalks are provided along both sides of Grove Street
                          Crosswalks are not provided at the intersection
                          Land use in the area consists primarily of commercial properties,
                          with Hotel Indigo, the Riverside MBTA Station, and the project site
                          located in the northeasterly corner of the intersection



Route 128 Exit 21B Collector-
Distributor (C-D) Road at the Route
128 Southbound Ramps

                          Three-legged unsignalized intersection
                          C-D Road northbound approach provides a single exclusive right-
                          turn slip ramp to Route 128 Southbound
                          C-D Road southbound approach provides a single general purpose
                          lane wide enough to accommodate to lanes of travel
                          Direction of travel along the Route 128 Southbound Ramps east leg
                          of the intersection is one-way in the eastbound direction away from
                          the intersection
                          Sidewalks are not provided at the intersection
                          Crosswalks are not provided at the intersection
                          Land use in the area consists of thee Route 128 Southbound
                          interchange at exits 21 and 22



Washington Street (Route 16) at
Quinobequin Road/ Wales Road/
Route 128 Southbound Ramps

                          Five-legged signalized intersection
                          Route 16 eastbound approach provides a through lane and a shared
                          right-turn/through lane
                          Route 16 westbound approach provides an exclusive left-turn lane,
                          two through lanes, and a right-turn slip lane
                          Quinobequin Road southbound approach provides an exclusive
                          "hard" right-turn lane under YIELD-sign control, a "soft" right-turn
                          lane to Wales Road, and a shared left-turn/through lane
                          Quinobequin Road northbound approach provides an exclusive left-
                          turn lane and an exclusive right-turn lane
                          Wales Road northeastbound approach provides two general purpose
                          lanes
                          Sidewalks are provided along both sides of Route 16
                          Crosswalks are provided across the west and north legs of the
                          intersection
                          Land use in the area consists primarily of commercial properties



Washington Street (Route 16) at the
Route 128 Northbound Ramps

                          Four-legged unsignalized intersection
                          Route 16 eastbound approach provides two through lanes and an
                          exclusive right-turn lane and slip ramp
                          Route 16 westbound approach provides two through lanes and a
                          right-turn slip ramp
                          The Route 128 Northbound Off-Ramp provides an exclusive left-turn
                          lane under STOP-sign control and an exclusive right-turn slip ramp
                          under YIELD-sign control
                          Sidewalks are provided along both sides of Route 16
                          Crosswalks are not provided at the intersection
                          Land use in the area consists of commercial and residential
                          properties
Grove Street at the Riverside MBTA
Parking Lot Driveway

                           Three-legged unsignalized intersection
                           Grove Street northbound approach provides a single general
                           purpose lane
                           Grove Street southbound approach provides a single general
                           purpose lane
                           Riverside MBTA Parking Lot Driveway eastbound approach
                           provides one wide lane under STOP-sign control that can
                           accommodate separate left-turning and right-turning movements
                           Sidewalks are provided along the west side of Grove Street
                           A crosswalk is provided across the Riverside MBTA Parking Lot
                           Driveway
                           Land use in the area consists of the Riverside MBTA Station, the
                           Project site, and Woodland Golf Club



Grove Street at Riverside Office
Building (South) and Apartment
Building Driveways

                           Four-legged unsignalized intersection
                           Grove Street northbound approach provides a single general
                           purpose lane
                           Grove Street southbound approach provides a single general
                           purpose lane
                           Office Building Driveway eastbound approach provides a right-turn
                           only lane under STOP-sign control
                           Apartment Driveway westbound approach provides a single general
                           purpose lane under STOP control, although a STOP-sign is not
                           provided
                           A crosswalk is provided across the Office Building Driveway
                           Land use in the area consists the Riverside Office Building and
                           residential properties



Grove Street at Riverside Office
Building (Central) and Apartment
Building Driveways

                           Four-legged signalized intersection
                           Grove Street northbound approach provides an exclusive left-turn
                           lane and a shared right-turn/through lane
                           Grove Street southbound approach provides a single general
                           purpose lane
                           Apartment Driveway westbound approach provides a single general
                           purpose lane
                           Direction of travel along the Office Building Driveway approach is
                           one-way in the westbound direction, away from the intersection
                           Crosswalks are provided across the Office Building Driveway and
                           the north leg of the intersection
                           Land use in the area consists the Riverside Office Building and
                           residential properties



Grove Street at Riverside Office
Building Driveway (North) and
Seminary Avenue

                           Four-legged unsignalized intersection
                           Grove Street northbound approach provides a single general
                           purpose lane
                           Grove Street southbound approach provides a single general
                           purpose lane
                           Office Building Driveway eastbound approach provides a left-turn
                           only lane under STOP-sign control
                           Seminary Avenue westbound approach provides a single general
                           purpose lane under STOP-sign control
                           Crosswalks are not provided at the intersection
                           Land use in the area consists the Riverside Office Building and
                           residential properties



Grove Street at Hancock Street

                           Three-legged unsignalized intersection
                           Grove Street northbound approach provides a single general
                           purpose lane
                           Grove Street southwestbound approach provides a single general
                           purpose lane
                           Hancock Street southbound approach provides a single general
                           purpose lane under STOP-sign control
                           A crosswalk is provided across Hancock Street
                           Land use in the area consists of the Walker Center and residential
                           properties



Grove Street at Woodland Road

                           Four-legged unsignalized intersection under all-way stop control
                           Grove Street northbound approach provides a single general
                           purpose lane under STOP-sign control
                           Grove Street southbound approach provides a single general
                           purpose lane under STOP-sign control
                           Woodland Road eastbound approach provides a single general
                           purpose lane under STOP-sign control
                           Woodland Road westbound approach provides a single general
                           purpose lane under STOP-sign control
                           A flashing red-beacon is provided at the intersection to supplement
                           the STOP-sign control along the four approaches
                           Crosswalks are provided across all legs of the intersection
                           Land use in the area consists of Lasell College, the United Parish of
                           Auburndale, and residential properties



Grove Street at Central Street and
Auburn Street

                           Four-legged signalized intersection
                           Grove Street northbound approach provides a single general
                           purpose lane
                           Auburn Street southbound approach provides a single general
                           purpose lane wide enough to accommodate two lanes of traffic
                           Central Street eastbound provides a single general purpose lane
                           Auburn Street westbound approach provides a single general
                           purpose lane
                           Crosswalks are provided across all legs of the intersection
                           Land use in the area consists of residential properties and the
                           Massachusetts Turnpike



Hancock Street at Woodland Road

                           Four-legged unsignalized intersection under all-way stop control
                           Hancock Street northbound approach provides a single general
                           purpose lane under STOP-sign control
                           Hancock Street southbound approach provides a single general
                           purpose lane under STOP-sign control
                           Woodland Road eastbound approach provides a single general
                           purpose lane under STOP-sign control
                           Woodland Road westbound approach provides a single general
                           purpose lane under STOP-sign control
                           Crosswalks are provided across all legs of the intersection
                           Land use in the area consists of the United Parish of Auburndale and
                           residential properties
Woodland Road at Central Street

                         Four-legged unsignalized intersection under all-way stop control
                         Central Street northeastbound approach provides a single general
                         purpose lane under STOP-sign control
                         Central Street southwestbound approach provides a single general
                         purpose lane under STOP-sign control
                         Woodland Road northwestbound approach provides a single
                         general purpose lane under STOP-sign control
                         Woodland Road southeastbound approach provides a single general
                         purpose lane under STOP-sign control
                         Crosswalks are provided across the Central Street legs and the
                         Woodland Road southeast leg of the intersection
                         Land use in the area consists of residential properties and the
                         Massachusetts Turnpike
                      



Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30) at
Lexington Street

                         Four-legged signalized intersection
                         Commonwealth Avenue eastbound approach provides an exclusive
                         left-turn lane and a through/right-turn lane
                         Commonwealth Avenue westbound approach provides an exclusive
                         left-turn lane, a through travel lane, and an exclusive right-turn lane
                         Lexington Street northbound approach provides a left-turn/through
                         lane and an exclusive right-turn lane
                         Lexington Street southbound approach provides an exclusive left-
                         turn lane, a through travel lane, and an exclusive right-turn slip
                         ramp under YIELD-sign control
                         Sidewalks are provided along both sides of Commonwealth Avenue
                         and Lexington Street
                         Crosswalks are provided across all four legs of the intersection
                         Land use in the area consists primarily of commercial properties



South Avenue (Route 30) at River
Road and Route 128 SB Ramps

                         Four-legged signalized intersection
                         South Avenue eastbound approach provides an exclusive left-turn
                         lane, a through travel lane, and a shared through/right-turn lane
                         South Avenue westbound approach provides an exclusive left-turn
                         lane, a through travel lane, and a shared through/right-turn lane
                       Route 128 SB Off-Ramp approach provides a shared left-
                       turn/through lane and an exclusive right-turn slip ramp under
                       YIELD-sign control
                       River Road southbound approach provides an exclusive left-turn
                       lane, a through travel lane, and an exclusive right-turn slip ramp
                       under YIELD-sing control.
                       Sidewalks are provided along the north side of South Avenue and
                       the west side of River Road
                       Crosswalks are provided across the River Road leg of the
                       intersection
                       Land use in the area consists primarily of wooded areas and the
                       Route 128/Route 30 interchange



South Avenue (Route 30) and
Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30) at
the Route 128 NB Ramps

                       Four-legged signalized intersection
                       South Avenue eastbound approach provides a through travel lane
                       and a shared through/right-turn lane
                       Commonwealth Avenue westbound approach provides a through
                       travel lane and a shared through/right-turn lane
                       Route 128 NB Off-Ramps approach provides an exclusive left-turn
                       lane and an exclusive right-turn slip ramp under YIELD-sign control
                       A sidewalk is provided along the north side of South
                       Avenue/Commonwealth Avenue
                       A crosswalk is provided across the north leg of the intersection
                       Land use in the area consists primarily of the Charles River and the
                       Route 128/Route 30 interchange



Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30) at
Auburn Street (west)

                       Three-legged signalized intersection
                       Commonwealth Avenue eastbound approach provides a through
                       travel lane and a shared through/right-turn lane
                       Commonwealth Avenue southwestbound approach provides a
                       single unmarked lane that operates as a left-turn lane and a through
                       travel lane
                       Auburn Street westbound approach provides a single general
                       purpose travel lane
                       Sidewalks are provided along the north side of Auburn Street, the
                       east side of Commonwealth Avenue, north of Auburn Street, and the
                       west/north side of Commonwealth Avenue
                          A crosswalk is provided across the Auburn Street leg of the
                          intersection
                          Land use in the area consists primarily of commercial properties
                          including Charles River Canoe and Kayak and a Mobil station



Washington Street (Route 16) at
Woodland Road

                          Three-legged unsignalized intersection
                          Washington Street northbound approach provides a shared left-
                          turn/through lane and a through travel lane
                          Washington Street southbound approach provides a through travel
                          lane and a shared through/right-turn lane
                          Woodland Road eastbound approach provides a single general
                          purpose travel lane
                          Sidewalks are provided along both sides of all approaches to the
                          intersection
                          A crosswalk is provided across the Woodland Road leg of the
                          intersection
                          Land use in the area consists primarily of residential properties



Washington Street (Route 16) at
Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)

                          Four-legged signalized intersection
                          Commonwealth Avenue eastbound approach provides an exclusive
                          left-turn lane, a through travel lane and a shared through/right-turn
                          lane
                          Commonwealth Avenue westbound approach provides an exclusive
                          left-turn lane, a through travel lane, and a shared through/right-turn
                          lane
                          The directions of travel along Commonwealth Avenue are separated
                          by a grass median
                          Washington Street northbound approach provides a left-
                          turn/through lane, a through travel lane and an exclusive right-turn
                          lane
                          Washington Street southbound approach provides a shared left-
                          turn/through lane and a shared through/right-turn lane
                          Sidewalks are provided along both sides of Commonwealth Avenue
                          and Washington Street
                          Crosswalks are provided across all four legs of the intersection
                          Land use in the area consists primarily of residential properties
Washington Street (Route 16) at
Auburn Street

                          Three-legged signalized intersection
                          Washington Street northbound approach provides a shared left-
                          turn/through lane and a through travel lane
                          Washington Street southbound approach provides a through travel
                          lane and a shared through/right-turn lane
                          Auburn Street eastbound provides an exclusive left-turn lane and an
                          exclusive right-turn lane
                          Sidewalks are provided along both sides of Washington Street and
                          Auburn Street
                          Crosswalks are provided across all three legs of the intersection
                          Land use in the area consists primarily of residential properties



Washington Street (Route 16) at
Perkins Street

                          Four-legged signalized intersection
                          Washington Street northbound approach provides a through travel
                          lane and a shared through/right-turn lane
                          Washington Street southbound approach provides an exclusive left-
                          turn lane and two right-turn lanes
                          The northwest leg of the intersection provides two departing lanes
                          (to the Massachusetts Turnpike eastbound) and two departing lanes
                          to Route 16 eastbound
                          Perkins Street northwestbound approach provides a single general
                          purpose travel lane
                          Sidewalks are provided along both sides of Washington Street, south
                          of Perkins Street; along the west side of Washington Street, north of
                          Perkins Street, and along both sides of Perkins Street
                          Crosswalks are provided across Perkins Street and the Washington
                          Street northbound approach to the intersection
                          Land use in the area consists primarily of commercial properties, the
                          Lincoln Park Baptist Church, and the Massachusetts Turnpike (I-90)
                          Exit 16 Interchange area
                      



Washington Street (Route 16) at
Massachusetts Turnpike (I-90) EB On-
Ramp

                          Three-legged signalized intersection
                         Washington Street northbound approach provides two through
                         travel lanes destined to the Massachusetts Turnpike eastbound
                         (under traffic signal control) and two through travel lanes destined
                         to Route 16 eastbound (as free movements)
                         Washington Street southbound approach provides an exclusive left-
                         turn lane destined to the Massachusetts Turnpike eastbound (as a
                         free movement) and two through travel lanes destined to Route 16
                         eastbound (under traffic signal control)
                         A sidewalk is provided along the east side of Washington Street,
                         north of Perkins Street
                         Crosswalks are not provided at the intersection
                         Land use in the area consists primarily of commercial properties, the
                         Lincoln Park Baptist Church, and the Massachusetts Turnpike (I-90)
                         Exit 16 Interchange area
                         The traffic signal at this location is connected to the same controller
                         as the traffic signal at Washington Street/Perkins Street



Washington Street (Route 16) at
Massachusetts Turnpike (I-90) WB
Off-Ramp

                         Three-legged signalized intersection
                         Washington Street westbound approach provides two left-turn lanes
                         destined to the Massachusetts Turnpike eastbound and two left-turn
                         lanes destined to Route 16 westbound
                         Massachusetts Turnpike WB Off-Ramp eastbound approach
                         provides two right-turn lanes destined to Route 16 westbound and
                         one right-turn lane destined to the Massachusetts Turnpike
                         eastbound
                         The south leg of the intersection provides five lanes departing the
                         intersection in the southbound direction (3 lanes destined to Route
                         16 westbound and 2 lanes destined to the Massachusetts Turnpike
                         and Route 16 eastbound)
                         Sidewalks are provided along both sides of the Washington Street
                         westbound approach
                         Crosswalks are provided across the Washington Street westbound
                         approach and the Massachusetts Turnpike WB Off-Ramp eastbound
                         approach
                         Land use in the area consists of the Massachusetts Turnpike (I-90)
                         Exit 16 Interchange area
Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30) at
Auburn Street (east)

                          Four-legged signalized intersection, with an additional leg for the
                          Commonwealth Avenue carriage road
                          Auburn Street eastbound and westbound approaches provide a
                          single general purpose travel lane in each direction
                          Commonwealth Avenue northbound and southbound approaches
                          provide a single general purpose travel lane in each direction
                          Commonwealth Avenue carriage road northbound approach
                          provides a single general purpose travel lane
                          Sidewalks are provided along both sides of all approaches to the
                          intersection
                          Crosswalks are provided across all legs of the intersection
                          Land use in the area consists of residential properties and the Parish
                          of the Messiah




Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30) at
Parish of the Messiah driveway

                          Three-legged unsignalized intersection
                          Parish of the Messiah driveway eastbound approach provides a
                          single general purpose travel lane
                          Commonwealth Avenue northbound and southbound approaches
                          provide a single general purpose travel lane in each direction
                          Sidewalks are provided along the southbound side of
                          Commonwealth Avenue
                          Crosswalks are not provided at the intersection
                          Land use in the area consists of residential properties and the Parish
                          of the Messiah



Lexington Street at Auburn Street

                          Four-legged unsignalized intersection
                          Auburn Street eastbound approach provides a single general
                          purpose travel lane under STOP-sign control
                          Private driveway westbound approach provides a single general
                          purpose travel lane
                          Lexington Street northbound and southbound approaches provide a
                          single general purpose travel lane in each direction
                          Sidewalks are provided along both sides of Auburn Street and
                          Lexington Street
                           Crosswalks are provided across the Lexington Street southbound
                           and Auburn Street eastbound approaches
                           Land use in the area consists of commercial properties



Lexington Street at Wolcott Street

                           Three-legged signalized intersection
                           Wolcott Street westbound approach provides a single general
                           purpose travel lane
                           Lexington Street southbound approach provides a shared left-
                           turn/through lane and a through travel lane
                           Lexington Street northbound approach provides a through travel
                           lane and an exclusive right-turn lane
                           Sidewalks are provided along both sides of Lexington Street and
                           Wolcott Street
                           Crosswalks are provided across the Lexington Street southbound
                           and Wolcott Street westbound approaches
                           Land use in the area consists of residential and commercial
                           properties



Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30) at
Melrose Street

                           Four-legged signalized intersection
                           Commonwealth Avenue eastbound and westbound approaches
                           provide a single general purpose travel lane
                           Melrose Street northbound and southbound approaches provide a
                           single general purpose travel lane
                           Sidewalks are provided along both sides of Commonwealth Avenue
                           Street and Melrose Street
                           Crosswalks are provided across all legs of the intersection
                           Land use in the area consists of residential and commercial
                           properties
Observed Traffic Volume Data
                    ATR Data
                   TMC Data
                                                               PRECISION
I-95/125 NB Offramp (Exit 23,24,25)                            D A T A
to Mass Pike/Route 30)                                         INDUSTRIES, LLC
City,State: Newton, MA                                      P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                 Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234       91860 C Volume
                                                           Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                Site Code: 10865.00

 Start                  NB                                                                           Wed
                                                                                                    13-May-
 Time        A.M.                 P.M.
                                                                                                      09
  12:00       138               366
  12:15       100               404
  12:30        96               351
  12:45        75      409      356      1477
  01:00        62               352
  01:15        80               366
  01:30        61               348
  01:45        48      251      356      1422
  02:00        63               418
  02:15        47               365
  02:30        50               427
  02:45        54      214      440      1650
  03:00        60               488
  03:15        64               478
  03:30        90               480
  03:45        63      277      494      1940
  04:00        53               512
  04:15        93               488
  04:30        41               484
  04:45        74      261      546      2030
  05:00        92               546
  05:15       102               575
  05:30       174               530
  05:45       168      536      446      2097
  06:00       236               454
  06:15       294               396
  06:30       366               372
  06:45       430     1326      331      1553
  07:00       415               284
  07:15       456               279
  07:30       502               232
  07:45       525     1898      181       976
  08:00       494               232
  08:15       501               186
  08:30       461               184
  08:45       547     2003      158       760
  09:00       461               384
  09:15       457               498
  09:30       470               482
  09:45       386     1774      438      1802
  10:00       375               372
  10:15       312               384
  10:30       352               358
  10:45       326     1365      240      1354
  11:00       354               254
  11:15       382               224
  11:30       366               188
  11:45       355     1457      158       824
   Total    11771             17885
 Percent                     100.0%             0.0%                     0.0%

Day Total                29656


    Peak    07:30                04:45
     Vol.   2022                 2197
   P.H.F.   0.963                0.955




                                                                                                              Page 1
                                                               PRECISION
I-95/125 NB Offramp (Exit 23,24,25)                            D A T A
to Mass Pike/Route 30)                                         INDUSTRIES, LLC
City,State: Newton, MA                                      P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                 Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234       91860 C Volume
                                                           Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                Site Code: 10865.00

 Start                  NB                                                                            Thu
                                                                                                    14-May-
 Time        A.M.                 P.M.
                                                                                                       09
  12:00       118               388
  12:15        98               388
  12:30        80               368
  12:45        70      366      368      1512
  01:00        62               330
  01:15        60               386
  01:30        56               341
  01:45        62      240      326      1383
  02:00        45               372
  02:15        36               421
  02:30        54               432
  02:45        56      191      422      1647
  03:00        42               464
  03:15        49               549
  03:30        63               505
  03:45        72      226      504      2022
  04:00        86               526
  04:15        76               522
  04:30        70               547
  04:45        50      282      528      2123
  05:00        60               550
  05:15       136               563
  05:30       148               546
  05:45       164      508      484      2143
  06:00       237               526
  06:15       330               458
  06:30       352               368
  06:45       437     1356      356      1708
  07:00       440               306
  07:15       489               258
  07:30       288               233
  07:45       288     1505      237      1034
  08:00       276               198
  08:15       464               201
  08:30       464               190
  08:45       480     1684      154       743
  09:00       455               154
  09:15       511               149
  09:30       384               144
  09:45       483     1833      133       580
  10:00       364               138
  10:15       380               118
  10:30       360                 90
  10:45       358     1462        82      428
  11:00       364                 72
  11:15       368                 64
  11:30       373                 74
  11:45       418     1523        60      270
   Total    11176             15593
 Percent                     100.0%             0.0%                     0.0%

Day Total                26769


    Peak    08:30                04:30
     Vol.   1910                 2188
   P.H.F.   0.934                0.972




                                                                                                              Page 2
                                                               PRECISION
I-95/128 NB Offramp (Exit 23,24,25)                            D A T A
at Recreation Road                                             INDUSTRIES, LLC
City, State: Newton, MA                                     P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                 Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234       91860 E Volume
                                                           Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                Site Code: 10865.00

 Start                  NB                                                                           Wed
                                                                                                    13-May-
 Time        A.M.                 P.M.
                                                                                                      09
  12:00       164               392
  12:15       121               406
  12:30       101               362
  12:45        86      472      382      1542
  01:00        68               372
  01:15        76               400
  01:30        62               358
  01:45        60      266      367      1497
  02:00        62               424
  02:15        52               404
  02:30        47               434
  02:45        54      215      451      1713
  03:00        66               530
  03:15        62               529
  03:30        91               508
  03:45        58      277      528      2095
  04:00        57               524
  04:15        91               552
  04:30        37               538
  04:45        72      257      594      2208
  05:00        86               588
  05:15        98               658
  05:30       174               557
  05:45       152      510      500      2303
  06:00       232               518
  06:15       300               470
  06:30       374               410
  06:45       436     1342      366      1764
  07:00       422               334
  07:15       471               303
  07:30       512               265
  07:45       556     1961      217      1119
  08:00       510               239
  08:15       509               222
  08:30       464               199
  08:45       560     2043      181       841
  09:00       493               357
  09:15       454               518
  09:30       492               503
  09:45       409     1848      477      1855
  10:00       386               384
  10:15       358               402
  10:30       358               370
  10:45       320     1422      264      1420
  11:00       353               256
  11:15       410               240
  11:30       388               196
  11:45       366     1517      158       850
   Total    12130             19207
 Percent                     100.0%             0.0%                     0.0%

Day Total                31337


    Peak    07:30                04:45
     Vol.   2087                 2397
   P.H.F.   0.938                0.911




                                                                                                              Page 1
                                                               PRECISION
I-95/128 NB Offramp (Exit 23,24,25)                            D A T A
at Recreation Road                                             INDUSTRIES, LLC
City, State: Newton, MA                                     P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                 Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234       91860 E Volume
                                                           Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                Site Code: 10865.00

 Start                  NB                                                                            Thu
                                                                                                    14-May-
 Time        A.M.                 P.M.
                                                                                                       09
  12:00       130               418
  12:15       108               372
  12:30        96               414
  12:45        68      402      389      1593
  01:00        72               352
  01:15        60               388
  01:30        56               356
  01:45        64      252      356      1452
  02:00        52               388
  02:15        38               446
  02:30        58               443
  02:45        54      202      435      1712
  03:00        47               503
  03:15        46               568
  03:30        66               543
  03:45        68      227      532      2146
  04:00        80               566
  04:15        84               568
  04:30        66               573
  04:45        60      290      574      2281
  05:00        52               601
  05:15       128               612
  05:30       146               606
  05:45       163      489      563      2382
  06:00       226               559
  06:15       324               544
  06:30       372               436
  06:45       436     1358      410      1949
  07:00       468               344
  07:15       543               306
  07:30       288               257
  07:45       326     1625      268      1175
  08:00       278               228
  08:15       493               212
  08:30       478               210
  08:45       495     1744      180       830
  09:00       452               178
  09:15       532               168
  09:30       400               165
  09:45       497     1881      140       651
  10:00       385               161
  10:15       416               134
  10:30       384               112
  10:45       374     1559        91      498
  11:00       370                 91
  11:15       390                 62
  11:30       376                 85
  11:45       435     1571        81      319
   Total    11600             16988
 Percent                     100.0%             0.0%                     0.0%

Day Total                28588


    Peak    08:30                04:45
     Vol.   1957                 2393
   P.H.F.   0.920                0.978




                                                                                                              Page 2
                                                                  PRECISION
I-95/125 NB Offramp to                                            D A T A
Route 30/I-95/128 NB                                              INDUSTRIES, LLC
City, State: Newton                                            P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                    Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234       91860 F Volume
                                                              Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                   Site Code: 10865.00

 Start                   NB (F)                                                                         Wed
                                                                                                       13-May-
 Time        A.M.                    P.M.
                                                                                                         09
  12:00      110                     102
  12:15       86                       98
  12:30       82                     104
  12:45       64         342           95    399
  01:00       44                       92
  01:15       57                     100
  01:30       43                       88
  01:45       50         194         104     384
  02:00       42                     116
  02:15       41                       90
  02:30       32                     106
  02:45       44         159         104     416
  03:00       51                     119
  03:15       48                     126
  03:30       70                     116
  03:45       52         221         132     493
  04:00       42                     122
  04:15       60                     121
  04:30        6                     121
  04:45       17         125         126     490
  05:00       10                     133
  05:15       17                     175
  05:30       38                     152
  05:45       32           97        145     605
  06:00       56                     144
  06:15       62                     120
  06:30       68                     110
  06:45      122         308         118     492
  07:00      113                     106
  07:15      124                       85
  07:30      158                       86
  07:45      218         613           62    339
  08:00      142                       64
  08:15      155                       54
  08:30      138                       58
  08:45      168         603           46    222
  09:00      156                     266
  09:15      109                     387
  09:30      136                     404
  09:45      118         519         371    1428
  10:00      105                     298
  10:15       97                     320
  10:30       86                     285
  10:45       74         362         214    1117
  11:00       76                     204
  11:15       91                     176
  11:30      106                     162
  11:45      101         374         114     656
   Total    3917                    7041
 Percent                          100.0%           0.0%                     0.0%

Day Total                  10958


    Peak    07:30                  09:15
     Vol.     673                  1460
   P.H.F.   0.772                  0.903




                                                                                                                 Page 1
                                                                 PRECISION
I-95/125 NB Offramp to                                           D A T A
Route 30/I-95/128 NB                                             INDUSTRIES, LLC
City, State: Newton                                           P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                   Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234       91860 F Volume
                                                             Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                  Site Code: 10865.00

 Start                   NB (F)                                                                         Thu
                                                                                                      14-May-
 Time        A.M.                    P.M.
                                                                                                         09
  12:00       94                     106
  12:15       82                       96
  12:30       68                       93
  12:45       52         296         112    407
  01:00       52                       84
  01:15       42                       88
  01:30       48                       88
  01:45       42         184           90   350
  02:00       41                       96
  02:15       29                     117
  02:30       50                       98
  02:45       38         158           97   408
  03:00       36                     130
  03:15       36                     114
  03:30       53                     103
  03:45       50         175         106    453
  04:00       56                     114
  04:15       62                     102
  04:30       22                     109
  04:45       13         153         127    452
  05:00        8                     164
  05:15       18                     111
  05:30       32                     156
  05:45       38           96        139    570
  06:00       52                     148
  06:15       63                     158
  06:30       84                     133
  06:45      121         320         104    543
  07:00      124                     114
  07:15      162                     106
  07:30       94                       77
  07:45      119         499           80   377
  08:00       99                       65
  08:15      170                       62
  08:30      150                       53
  08:45      136         555           44   224
  09:00      154                       47
  09:15      140                       52
  09:30      107                       49
  09:45      146         547           50   198
  10:00       97                       39
  10:15      115                       38
  10:30      107                       29
  10:45       92         411           30   136
  11:00      102                       30
  11:15       85                       16
  11:30       91                       28
  11:45      138         416           26   100
   Total    3810                    4218
 Percent                          100.0%          0.0%                     0.0%

Day Total                   8028


    Peak    08:15                  05:30
     Vol.     610                    601
   P.H.F.   0.897                  0.951




                                                                                                                Page 2
                                                                 PRECISION
I-95/125 NB Ramp                                                 D A T A
to Mass Pike                                                     INDUSTRIES, LLC
City, State: Newton, MA                                       P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                   Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234       91860 G Volume
                                                             Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                  Site Code: 10865.00

 Start                    EB                                                                           Wed
                                                                                                      13-May-
 Time        A.M.                   P.M.
                                                                                                        09
  12:00        54                  302
  12:15        35                  302
  12:30        26                  290
  12:45        16         131      280     1174
  01:00        30                  289
  01:15        22                  310
  01:30        20                  284
  01:45        12          84      258     1141
  02:00        20                  328
  02:15        16                  321
  02:30        12                  322
  02:45        15          63      358     1329
  03:00        15                  414
  03:15        20                  412
  03:30        17                  414
  03:45        12          64      406     1646
  04:00        13                  417
  04:15        32                  434
  04:30        32                  439
  04:45        53         130      468     1758
  05:00        82                  458
  05:15        88                  507
  05:30       134                  432
  05:45       119         423      365     1762
  06:00       172                  375
  06:15       234                  366
  06:30       301                  308
  06:45       334     1041         267     1316
  07:00       312                  230
  07:15       347                  228
  07:30       378                  180
  07:45       350     1387         169      807
  08:00       362                  181
  08:15       374                  164
  08:30       334                  154
  08:45       372     1442         145      644
  09:00       352                    92
  09:15       364                  134
  09:30       343                  130
  09:45       316     1375         112      468
  10:00       284                    90
  10:15       294                    87
  10:30       260                    88
  10:45       265     1103           62     327
  11:00       277                    55
  11:15       336                    58
  11:30       270                    42
  11:45       284     1167           40     195
   Total     8410                12567
 Percent                        100.0%            0.0%                     0.0%

Day Total                  20977


    Peak    07:30                  04:30
     Vol.   1464                   1872
   P.H.F.   0.968                  0.923




                                                                                                                Page 1
                                                                 PRECISION
I-95/125 NB Ramp                                                 D A T A
to Mass Pike                                                     INDUSTRIES, LLC
City, State: Newton, MA                                       P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                   Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234       91860 G Volume
                                                             Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                  Site Code: 10865.00

 Start                    EB                                                                            Thu
                                                                                                      14-May-
 Time        A.M.                   P.M.
                                                                                                         09
  12:00        44                  321
  12:15        24                  298
  12:30        33                  304
  12:45        14         115      294     1217
  01:00        24                  254
  01:15        16                  326
  01:30        12                  272
  01:45        26          78      266     1118
  02:00        10                  294
  02:15        12                  326
  02:30         9                  358
  02:45        15          46      342     1320
  03:00        14                  368
  03:15        10                  458
  03:30        17                  461
  03:45        16          57      426     1713
  04:00        24                  474
  04:15        30                  470
  04:30        45                  464
  04:45        48         147      476     1884
  05:00        43                  440
  05:15       102                  512
  05:30       122                  454
  05:45       136         403      454     1860
  06:00       153                  428
  06:15       269                  400
  06:30       288                  317
  06:45       304     1014         314     1459
  07:00       354                  228
  07:15       396                  216
  07:30       234                  187
  07:45       214     1198         187      818
  08:00       170                  167
  08:15       326                  152
  08:30       338                  164
  08:45       326     1160         136      619
  09:00       330                  134
  09:15       391                  122
  09:30       292                  122
  09:45       358     1371           96     474
  10:00       306                  117
  10:15       306                  100
  10:30       299                    90
  10:45       286     1197           59     366
  11:00       257                    64
  11:15       318                    48
  11:30       301                    57
  11:45       308     1184           55     224
   Total     7970                13072
 Percent                        100.0%            0.0%                     0.0%

Day Total                  21042


    Peak    08:30                  04:30
     Vol.   1385                   1892
   P.H.F.   0.874                  0.924




                                                                                                                Page 2
                                                                  PRECISION
Mass Pike Loop Ramp                                               D A T A
to I-95/128 NB                                                    INDUSTRIES, LLC
City, State: Newton                                            P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                    Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234       91860 H Volume
                                                              Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                   Site Code: 10865.00

 Start                   WB (H)                                                                         Wed
                                                                                                       13-May-
 Time        A.M.                    P.M.
                                                                                                         09
  12:00        87                    376
  12:15        62                    350
  12:30        47                    334
  12:45        60         256        342    1402
  01:00        55                    336
  01:15        36                    372
  01:30        52                    406
  01:45        37         180        414    1528
  02:00        50                    365
  02:15        28                    448
  02:30        54                    436
  02:45        33         165        471    1720
  03:00        44                    476
  03:15        72                    436
  03:30        38                    407
  03:45        44         198        462    1781
  04:00        65                    466
  04:15        66                    517
  04:30        82                    524
  04:45        96         309        472    1979
  05:00        97                    510
  05:15       147                    527
  05:30       174                    574
  05:45       240         658        594    2205
  06:00       302                    546
  06:15       468                    520
  06:30       523                    448
  06:45       572        1865        434    1948
  07:00       586                    395
  07:15       585                    339
  07:30       710                    324
  07:45       634        2515        274    1332
  08:00       565                    220
  08:15       480                    278
  08:30       360                    258
  08:45       410        1815        244    1000
  09:00       544                    256
  09:15       548                    256
  09:30       444                    230
  09:45       403        1939        220     962
  10:00       341                    188
  10:15       350                    187
  10:30       392                    132
  10:45       346        1429        133     640
  11:00       346                    113
  11:15       378                    110
  11:30       352                      94
  11:45       359        1435          66    383
   Total    12764                  16880
 Percent                          100.0%           0.0%                     0.0%

Day Total                  29644


    Peak    07:00                  05:15
     Vol.   2515                   2241
   P.H.F.   0.886                  0.943




                                                                                                                 Page 1
                                                                  PRECISION
Mass Pike Loop Ramp                                               D A T A
to I-95/128 NB                                                    INDUSTRIES, LLC
City, State: Newton                                            P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                    Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234       91860 H Volume
                                                              Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                   Site Code: 10865.00

 Start                   WB (H)                                                                          Thu
                                                                                                       14-May-
 Time        A.M.                    P.M.
                                                                                                          09
  12:00       101                    334
  12:15        78                    356
  12:30        64                    386
  12:45        61         304        419    1495
  01:00        38                    354
  01:15        44                    359
  01:30        40                    406
  01:45        37         159        376    1495
  02:00        56                    425
  02:15        50                    436
  02:30        57                    452
  02:45        48         211        449    1762
  03:00        48                    426
  03:15        34                    452
  03:30        58                    478
  03:45        50         190        470    1826
  04:00        56                    458
  04:15        50                    354
  04:30        80                    400
  04:45        92         278        466    1678
  05:00        93                    508
  05:15       134                    540
  05:30       230                    520
  05:45       222         679        496    2064
  06:00       337                    488
  06:15       466                    525
  06:30       526                    426
  06:45       550        1879        512    1951
  07:00       528                    359
  07:15       608                    333
  07:30       664                    308
  07:45       628        2428        247    1247
  08:00       603                    263
  08:15       617                    266
  08:30       396                    248
  08:45       363        1979        273    1050
  09:00       403                    229
  09:15       373                    232
  09:30       665                    219
  09:45       413        1854        225     905
  10:00       340                    228
  10:15       372                    177
  10:30       382                    184
  10:45       256        1350        176     765
  11:00       382                    124
  11:15       356                    136
  11:30       362                    154
  11:45       366        1466        148     562
   Total    12777                  16800
 Percent                          100.0%           0.0%                     0.0%

Day Total                  29577


    Peak    07:30                  05:00
     Vol.   2512                   2064
   P.H.F.   0.946                  0.956




                                                                                                                 Page 2
                                                                 PRECISION
Grove Street south of                                            D A T A
Riverside MBTA Driveway                                          INDUSTRIES, LLC
City,State: Newton, MA                                        P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                   Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234                                      91860 I Volume
                                                             Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                Site Code: 10865.00

                                                                                                                                    13-May-
 Start                SB                                       NB                                         Combined
                                                                                                                                      09
 Time        A.M.                  P.M.           A.M.                       P.M.                  A.M.               P.M.           Wed
  12:00         41                   74             15                       73                     56                147
  12:15         15                   71             12                       75                     27                146
  12:30          9                   69              6                       98                     15                167
  12:45         13    78             75   289        8          41           81            327      21     119        156     616
  01:00         11                   61              5                       70                     16                131
  01:15          3                   70              3                       91                      6                161
  01:30          4                   86              6                       80                     10                166
  01:45          7    25             64   281        2          16           90            331       9       41       154     612
  02:00          3                   81              2                       91                      5                172
  02:15          0                   82              1                       83                      1                165
  02:30          2                 105               3                       97                      5                202
  02:45          1        6        103    371        2           8           98            369       3       14       201     740
  03:00          1                 118               1                     115                       2                233
  03:15          3                 153               1                       92                      4                245
  03:30          2                 132               3                     112                       5                244
  03:45          1        7        158    561        3           8           68            387       4       15       226     948
  04:00          2                 151               6                       98                      8                249
  04:15          3                 147               2                       97                      5                244
  04:30          3                 177               8                     107                      11                284
  04:45          7    15           191    666       17          33         127             429      24       48       318    1095
  05:00          5                 227              13                     138                      18                365
  05:15          9                 226              26                     142                      35                368
  05:30         12                 202              37                     132                      49                334
  05:45         14    40           190    845       66        142          128             540      80     182        318    1385
  06:00         24                 204              77                     123                     101                327
  06:15         29                 145            120                        95                    149                240
  06:30         50                 131            136                        96                    186                227
  06:45         58   161           107    587     176         509            99            413     234     670        206    1000
  07:00         83                 109            193                        74                    276                183
  07:15       101                    94           228                        82                    329                176
  07:30         67                   80           249                        60                    316                140
  07:45         99   350             78   361     249         919            66            282     348    1269        144     643
  08:00         93                   55           258                        58                    351                113
  08:15         99                   73           254                        58                    353                131
  08:30         94                   58           223                        55                    317                113
  08:45         99   385             42   228     291       1026             50            221     390    1411         92     449
  09:00         79                   49           197                        66                    276                115
  09:15         66                   47           170                        50                    236                 97
  09:30         66                   37           143                        52                    209                 89
  09:45         68   279             33   166     112         622            53            221     180     901         86     387
  10:00         80                   37             89                       40                    169                 77
  10:15         63                   28             83                       19                    146                 47
  10:30         60                   21             75                       30                    135                 51
  10:45         52   255             33   119       72        319            17            106     124     574         50     225
  11:00         55                   22             73                       24                    128                 46
  11:15         61                   26             75                       17                    136                 43
  11:30         76                    8             59                       17                    135                 25
  11:45         73   265             19    75       92        299            18              76    165     564         37     151
   Total     1866                 4549           3942                     3702                    5808               8251
 Percent    32.1%                55.1%          67.9%                    44.9%

Day Total                 6415                                   7644                                        14059


    Peak    07:45                04:45          08:00                     05:00                   08:00              04:45
     Vol.     385                  846          1026                        540                   1411               1385
   P.H.F.   0.972                0.932          0.881                     0.951                   0.904              0.941




                                                                                                                                              Page 1
                                                                 PRECISION
Grove Street south of                                            D A T A
Riverside MBTA Driveway                                          INDUSTRIES, LLC
City,State: Newton, MA                                        P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                   Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234                                      91860 I Volume
                                                             Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                Site Code: 10865.00

                                                                                                                                    14-May-
 Start                SB                                       NB                                         Combined
                                                                                                                                       09
 Time        A.M.                  P.M.           A.M.                       P.M.                  A.M.               P.M.            Thu
  12:00         11                   86              7                       80                     18                166
  12:15         14                   71              9                       74                     23                145
  12:30         11                   59              7                       86                     18                145
  12:45          9    45             78   294        5          28           96            336      14       73       174     630
  01:00         10                   66              7                       78                     17                144
  01:15          5                   80              2                       81                      7                161
  01:30          4                   80              5                       82                      9                162
  01:45          6    25             54   280        5          19           86            327      11       44       140     607
  02:00          5                   76              3                       92                      8                168
  02:15          1                 102               5                       92                      6                194
  02:30          1                 108               1                       81                      2                189
  02:45          2        9        114    400        3          12           84            349       5       21       198     749
  03:00          1                 123               4                     106                       5                229
  03:15          4                 116               1                     109                       5                225
  03:30          3                 140               2                       97                      5                237
  03:45          1        9        136    515        3          10         108             420       4       19       244     935
  04:00          3                 164               5                       99                      8                263
  04:15          2                 153               3                       96                      5                249
  04:30          1                 141              12                     124                      13                265
  04:45          9    15           196    654       11          31         107             426      20       46       303    1080
  05:00          9                 238              15                     137                      24                375
  05:15          7                 204              18                     147                      25                351
  05:30         15                 229              47                     161                      62                390
  05:45         16    47           183    854       68        148          146             591      84     195        329    1445
  06:00         17                 157              84                     139                     101                296
  06:15         46                 191            118                      124                     164                315
  06:30         51                 143            142                      106                     193                249
  06:45         77   191           130    621     212         556            90            459     289     747        220    1080
  07:00         80                 112            199                        80                    279                192
  07:15         95                 103            241                        60                    336                163
  07:30         89                   69           178                        99                    267                168
  07:45         93   357             65   349     222         840            70            309     315    1197        135     658
  08:00       111                    56           189                        50                    300                106
  08:15         98                   55           264                        51                    362                106
  08:30       107                    39           232                        45                    339                 84
  08:45         96   412             48   198     215         900            33            179     311    1312         81     377
  09:00         93                   33           190                        43                    283                 76
  09:15         74                   48           170                        47                    244                 95
  09:30         56                   43           154                        46                    210                 89
  09:45         65   288             27   151     128         642            33            169     193     930         60     320
  10:00         63                   44           116                        39                    179                 83
  10:15         71                   38             89                       31                    160                 69
  10:30         55                   31             82                       27                    137                 58
  10:45         61   250             20   133       71        358            25            122     132     608         45     255
  11:00         61                   20             94                       27                    155                 47
  11:15         66                   15             86                       19                    152                 34
  11:30         74                   41             74                       20                    148                 61
  11:45         87   288             27   103       85        339            20              86    172     627         47     189
   Total     1936                 4552           3883                     3773                    5819               8325
 Percent    33.3%                54.7%          66.7%                    45.3%

Day Total                 6488                                   7656                                        14144


    Peak    08:00                04:45          07:45                     05:15                   07:45              05:00
     Vol.     412                  867            907                       593                   1316               1445
   P.H.F.   0.928                0.911          0.859                     0.921                   0.909              0.926




                                                                                                                                              Page 2
                                                                 PRECISION
Grove Street north of                                            D A T A
Riverside MBTA Driveway                                          INDUSTRIES, LLC
City,State: Newton, MA                                        P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                   Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234                                      91860 J Volume
                                                             Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                Site Code: 10865.00

                                                                                                                                    13-May-
 Start                SB                                       NB                                         Combined
                                                                                                                                      09
 Time        A.M.                  P.M.           A.M.                       P.M.                  A.M.               P.M.           Wed
  12:00         15                   76             12                       76                     27                152
  12:15          4                   76             10                       65                     14                141
  12:30          6                   64              5                       86                     11                150
  12:45          2    27             60   276       11          38           73            300      13       65       133    576
  01:00          4                   56              6                       65                     10                121
  01:15          4                   70              4                       82                      8                152
  01:30          3                   81              5                       74                      8                155
  01:45          2    13             56   263        1          16           71            292       3       29       127    555
  02:00          0                   70              3                       84                      3                154
  02:15          0                   69              3                       74                      3                143
  02:30          2                   86              3                       94                      5                180
  02:45          1        3          78   303        2          11           89            341       3       14       167    644
  03:00          1                   98              1                     100                       2                198
  03:15          3                 114               2                       88                      5                202
  03:30          3                 120               3                       98                      6                218
  03:45          1        8        126    458        3           9           64            350       4       17       190    808
  04:00          2                 137               3                     100                       5                237
  04:15          3                 132               3                       90                      6                222
  04:30          3                 142               4                       92                      7                234
  04:45         10    18           148    559        7          17         114             396      17       35       262    955
  05:00          6                 213              12                     131                      18                344
  05:15         11                 194              14                     131                      25                325
  05:30         14                 184              24                     130                      38                314
  05:45         16    47           164    755       37          87         104             496      53     134        268    1251
  06:00         25                 144              49                     121                      74                265
  06:15         32                 120              92                       88                    124                208
  06:30         48                   95             99                       86                    147                181
  06:45         62   167             81   440     118         358            89            384     180     525        170    824
  07:00         90                   78           139                        61                    229                139
  07:15         92                   77           184                        76                    276                153
  07:30         71                   64           231                        57                    302                121
  07:45       102    355             66   285     212         766            68            262     314    1121        134    547
  08:00       102                    47           238                        58                    340                105
  08:15         89                   54           220                        64                    309                118
  08:30       106                    52           198                        51                    304                103
  08:45         96   393             34   187     258         914            40            213     354    1307         74    400
  09:00         70                   31           184                        64                    254                 95
  09:15         64                   32           152                        43                    216                 75
  09:30         56                   29           126                        46                    182                 75
  09:45         57   247             21   113       99        561            45            198     156     808         66    311
  10:00         62                   23             86                       37                    148                 60
  10:15         52                   18             70                       20                    122                 38
  10:30         54                   18             71                       28                    125                 46
  10:45         48   216              9    68       64        291            18            103     112     507         27    171
  11:00         50                   16             56                       16                    106                 32
  11:15         50                   18             60                       13                    110                 31
  11:30         60                    9             44                       14                    104                 23
  11:45         62   222              8    51       88        248            18              61    150     470         26    112
   Total     1716                 3758           3316                     3396                    5032               7154
 Percent    34.1%                52.5%          65.9%                    47.5%

Day Total                 5474                                   6712                                        12186


    Peak    07:45                05:00          08:00                     04:45                   08:00              05:00
     Vol.     399                  755            914                       506                   1307               1251
   P.H.F.   0.941                0.886          0.886                     0.966                   0.923              0.909




                                                                                                                                              Page 1
                                                                 PRECISION
Grove Street north of                                            D A T A
Riverside MBTA Driveway                                          INDUSTRIES, LLC
City,State: Newton, MA                                        P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                   Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234                                      91860 J Volume
                                                             Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                Site Code: 10865.00

                                                                                                                                    14-May-
 Start                SB                                       NB                                         Combined
                                                                                                                                       09
 Time        A.M.                  P.M.           A.M.                       P.M.                  A.M.               P.M.            Thu
  12:00         10                   76              2                       76                     12                152
  12:15          5                   68              8                       59                     13                127
  12:30          7                   56              3                       71                     10                127
  12:45          5    27             65   265        4          17           91            297       9       44       156    562
  01:00          4                   61              7                       64                     11                125
  01:15          0                   72              3                       72                      3                144
  01:30          1                   74              6                       74                      7                148
  01:45          2        7          50   257        4          20           78            288       6       27       128     545
  02:00          3                   63              3                       82                      6                145
  02:15          1                   83              3                       87                      4                170
  02:30          1                   95              2                       75                      3                170
  02:45          2        7          90   331        4          12           70            314       6       19       160     645
  03:00          1                 100               4                       97                      5                197
  03:15          4                   85              1                       98                      5                183
  03:30          2                 116               2                       88                      4                204
  03:45          1        8        118    419        2           9         100             383       3       17       218    802
  04:00          2                 145               4                       79                      6                224
  04:15          2                 129               4                       82                      6                211
  04:30          1                 131               5                     104                       6                235
  04:45          6    11           152    557        6          19           90            355      12       30       242    912
  05:00          8                 206              12                     111                      20                317
  05:15         11                 181              10                     128                      21                309
  05:30         16                 198              28                     142                      44                340
  05:45         18    53           138    723       43          93         134             515      61     146        272    1238
  06:00         15                 156              49                     105                      64                261
  06:15         41                 111              80                     102                     121                213
  06:30         50                 113              97                       94                    147                207
  06:45         69   175           111    491     148         374            86            387     217     549        197    878
  07:00         82                   75           144                        67                    226                142
  07:15         84                   77           206                        52                    290                129
  07:30         88                   57           142                        98                    230                155
  07:45         90   344             46   255     184         676            58            275     274    1020        104    530
  08:00       110                    42           154                        43                    264                 85
  08:15       100                    45           250                        42                    350                 87
  08:30       107                    23           207                        44                    314                 67
  08:45         97   414             41   151     189         800            31            160     286    1214         72    311
  09:00         84                   24           179                        47                    263                 71
  09:15         67                   34           164                        36                    231                 70
  09:30         58                   29           133                        39                    191                 68
  09:45         53   262             20   107     118         594            27            149     171     856         47    256
  10:00         55                   32             98                       32                    153                 64
  10:15         66                   27             80                       30                    146                 57
  10:30         50                   27             74                       29                    124                 56
  10:45         53   224              8    94       60        312            23            114     113     536         31    208
  11:00         53                   13             79                       23                    132                 36
  11:15         60                   11             72                       12                    132                 23
  11:30         71                   21             69                       16                    140                 37
  11:45         78   262             12    57       84        304            18              69    162     566         30    126
   Total     1794                 3707           3230                     3306                    5024               7013
 Percent    35.7%                52.9%          64.3%                    47.1%

Day Total                 5501                                   6536                                        12037


    Peak    08:00                04:45          08:15                     05:00                   08:00              05:00
     Vol.     414                  737            825                       515                   1214               1238
   P.H.F.   0.941                0.894          0.825                     0.907                   0.867              0.910




                                                                                                                                              Page 2
                                                                 PRECISION
Grove Street south of                                            D A T A
Hancock Street                                                   INDUSTRIES, LLC
City,State: Newton, MA                                        P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                   Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234                                     91860 K Volume
                                                             Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                Site Code: 10865.00

                                                                                                                                    13-May-
 Start                   NB                                    SB                                         Combined
                                                                                                                                      09
 Time        A.M.                  P.M.           A.M.                       P.M.                  A.M.               P.M.           Wed
  12:00         10                   77             12                       50                     22                127
  12:15         11                   62              2                       56                     13                118
  12:30          6                   74              5                       60                     11                134
  12:45         10        37         56   269        2          21           61            227      12       58       117    496
  01:00          5                   60              2                       44                      7                104
  01:15          4                   63              4                       60                      8                123
  01:30          3                   56              3                       69                      6                125
  01:45          1        13         52   231        0           9           46            219       1       22        98    450
  02:00          1                   80              0                       62                      1                142
  02:15          3                   72              1                       56                      4                128
  02:30          2                   92              0                       67                      2                159
  02:45          2         8         88   332        0           1           60            245       2        9       148    577
  03:00          1                   89              0                       64                      1                153
  03:15          1                   88              3                       81                      4                169
  03:30          3                   99              4                       88                      7                187
  03:45          3         8         66   342        1           8           89            322       4       16       155    664
  04:00          3                   96              2                       94                      5                190
  04:15          4                   87              3                       90                      7                177
  04:30          4                 110               2                       93                      6                203
  04:45          5       16        120    413       11          18           88            365      16       34       208    778
  05:00         11                 154               7                     122                      18                276
  05:15         10                 146               8                     115                      18                261
  05:30         21                 151              19                     113                      40                264
  05:45         25        67       103    554       22          56         114             464      47     123        217    1018
  06:00         36                 136              25                       90                     61                226
  06:15         72                   89             35                       82                    107                171
  06:30         82                   79             46                       72                    128                151
  06:45         82       272         85   389       72        178            65            309     154     450        150    698
  07:00       101                    69             92                       62                    193                131
  07:15       142                    65             88                       57                    230                122
  07:30       182                    56             76                       55                    258                111
  07:45       126        551         68   258     108         364            48            222     234     915        116    480
  08:00       168                    61           108                        36                    276                 97
  08:15       162                    66             98                       44                    260                110
  08:30       130                    45           120                        43                    250                 88
  08:45       152        612         40   212     111         437            34            157     263    1049         74    369
  09:00       111                    58             84                       19                    195                 77
  09:15         97                   40             64                       26                    161                 66
  09:30         92                   53             59                       29                    151                 82
  09:45         68       368         41   192       54        261            27            101     122     629         68    293
  10:00         68                   40             44                       26                    112                 66
  10:15         48                   21             48                       13                     96                 34
  10:30         56                   28             44                       21                    100                 49
  10:45         42       214         20   109       40        176             8              68     82     390         28    177
  11:00         55                   13             50                       13                    105                 26
  11:15         51                   13             42                       12                     93                 25
  11:30         42                   14             44                        5                     86                 19
  11:45         90       238         15    55       48        184             9              39    138     422         24     94
   Total     2404                 3356           1713                     2738                    4117               6094
 Percent    58.4%                55.1%          41.6%                    44.9%

Day Total                 5760                                   4451                                        10211


    Peak    07:30                04:45          08:00                     05:00                   08:00              05:00
     Vol.     638                  571            437                       464                   1049               1018
   P.H.F.   0.876                0.927          0.910                     0.951                   0.950              0.922




                                                                                                                                              Page 1
                                                                 PRECISION
Grove Street south of                                            D A T A
Hancock Street                                                   INDUSTRIES, LLC
City,State: Newton, MA                                        P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                   Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234                                     91860 K Volume
                                                             Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                Site Code: 10865.00

                                                                                                                                    14-May-
 Start                   NB                                    SB                                         Combined
                                                                                                                                       09
 Time        A.M.                  P.M.           A.M.                       P.M.                  A.M.               P.M.            Thu
  12:00          2                   70              6                       56                      8                126
  12:15          7                   62              2                       60                      9                122
  12:30          3                   62              6                       54                      9                116
  12:45          3        15         66   260        6          20           59            229       9       35       125    489
  01:00          6                   60              3                       56                      9                116
  01:15          4                   58              0                       60                      4                118
  01:30          4                   58              1                       61                      5                119
  01:45          3        17         68   244        3           7           46            223       6       24       114    467
  02:00          0                   72              2                       54                      2                126
  02:15          2                   73              1                       66                      3                139
  02:30          2                   86              1                       72                      3                158
  02:45          2         6         68   299        2           6           68            260       4       12       136    559
  03:00          3                   92              0                       82                      3                174
  03:15          0                   90              2                       67                      2                157
  03:30          2                   86              2                       85                      4                171
  03:45          2         7         90   358        1           5           84            318       3       12       174    676
  04:00          4                   82              2                       94                      6                176
  04:15          3                   98              2                       85                      5                183
  04:30          5                 106               1                       94                      6                200
  04:45          4       16          95   381        5          10           90            363       9       26       185    744
  05:00         10                 131               7                     114                      17                245
  05:15          8                 131               9                     118                      17                249
  05:30         23                 162              18                     128                      41                290
  05:45         29        70       145    569       24          58           96            456      53     128        241    1025
  06:00         34                 117              18                     104                      52                221
  06:15         66                 104              42                       68                    108                172
  06:30         70                   93             49                       67                    119                160
  06:45       103        273         90   404       74        183            83            322     177     456        173    726
  07:00         97                   73             78                       51                    175                124
  07:15       156                    59             82                       57                    238                116
  07:30       110                  101              89                       45                    199                146
  07:45       140        503         56   289     110         359            41            194     250     862         97    483
  08:00         92                   48           116                        38                    208                 86
  08:15       173                    44           108                        35                    281                 79
  08:30       130                    44           114                        17                    244                 61
  08:45       114        509         30   166     114         452            35            125     228     961         65    291
  09:00       124                    41             96                       25                    220                 66
  09:15       108                    37             66                       32                    174                 69
  09:30         72                   33             54                       27                    126                 60
  09:45         80       384         24   135       43        259            20            104     123     643         44    239
  10:00         65                   31             42                       21                    107                 52
  10:15         55                   26             47                       25                    102                 51
  10:30         61                   31             50                       22                    111                 53
  10:45         52       233         23   111       42        181             6              74     94     414         29    185
  11:00         66                   19             37                       11                    103                 30
  11:15         56                    8             50                       12                    106                 20
  11:30         71                   16             54                       18                    125                 34
  11:45         78       271         15    58       53        194            14              55    131     465         29    113
   Total     2304                 3274           1734                     2723                    4038               5997
 Percent    57.1%                54.6%          42.9%                    45.4%

Day Total                 5578                                   4457                                        10035


    Peak    08:15                05:00          08:00                     05:00                   07:45              05:00
     Vol.     541                  569            452                       456                     983              1025
   P.H.F.   0.782                0.878          0.974                     0.891                   0.875              0.884




                                                                                                                                              Page 2
       ATR     I-95/128 on SB side of roadway
  Location:    south of Grove Street
City, State:   Newton, MA
     Client:   VHB/ M. Santos
Site Code:     10085
 PDI File #:   91860 B
     Dates:    Wed 5/13 thru Thurs 5/14/09


                                                                                                 Classification
                                                                            1         2          3          4,5,6,7    8,9,10     11,12,13   Headway    GAP
   Date          Time     Direction    Lanes      Volume   Occupancy %
                                                                         0-10 ft   10-19 ft   19-24 ft     24-54 ft   54-109 ft   109 ft +     AVE      AVE
5/13/2009      0:00:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5   166         1.1         0        136          8             9         13           0       21.7       20.5
5/13/2009      0:15:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5   123         0.8         0        100          3             11         9           0       29.3       28.0
5/13/2009      0:30:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5   102         0.7         0         79          4             10         9           0       35.3       34.0
5/13/2009      0:45:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5   104         0.7         2         83          0             10         9           0       34.6       33.4
5/13/2009      1:00:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5    78         0.5         2         61          1             8          6           0       46.2       44.9
5/13/2009      1:15:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5    78         0.6         1         54          2             15         6           0       46.2       44.8
5/13/2009      1:30:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5    67         0.6         1         45          0             12         9           0       53.7       52.2
5/13/2009      1:45:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5    59         0.5         0         35          2             17         5           0       61.0       59.5
5/13/2009      2:00:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5    42         0.4         1         24          3             6          8           0       64.3       63.0
5/13/2009      2:15:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5    36         0.3         1         24          1             6          4           0       100.0      98.5
5/13/2009      2:30:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5    32         0.3         0         16          3             6          7           0       112.5      110.7
5/13/2009      2:45:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5    50         0.5         0         27          1             7         15           0       72.0       70.1
5/13/2009      3:00:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5    36         0.3         0         16          5             7          8           0       100.0      98.3
5/13/2009      3:15:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5    30         0.3         2         15          0             8          5           0       120.0      118.4
5/13/2009      3:30:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5    53         0.4         1         35          3             7          7           0       67.9       66.4
5/13/2009      3:45:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5    39         0.4         0         25          1             5          8           0       92.3       90.6
5/13/2009      4:00:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5    55         0.5         2         31          1             8         13           0       65.5       63.8
5/13/2009      4:15:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5    60         0.5         1         35          3             12         9           0       60.0       58.5
5/13/2009      4:30:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5    78         0.7         2         40          9             9         18           0       46.2       44.5
5/13/2009      4:45:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5   102         0.8         1         71          6             10        14           0       35.3       34.0
5/13/2009      5:00:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5   133         1.0         4         84          9             14        22           0       27.1       25.7
5/13/2009      5:15:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5   178         1.2         1        131          9             21        16           0       20.2       19.0
5/13/2009      5:30:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5   286         1.8         4        213         21            24         24           0       12.6       11.4
5/13/2009      5:45:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5   442         2.7         9        331         37            37         28           0        8.1        7.0
5/13/2009      6:00:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5   583         3.3         15       455         49            40         24           0        6.2        5.2
5/13/2009      6:15:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5   816         4.4         19       649         76            55         17           0        4.4        3.4
5/13/2009      6:30:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5   1077        6.1         19       863         90            73         32           0        3.3        2.3
5/13/2009      6:45:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5   1284        7.4         23       1026        110           87         38           0        2.8        1.8
5/13/2009      7:00:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5   1396        7.8         30       1180        106           59         21           0        2.6        1.6
5/13/2009      7:15:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5   1387        7.6         37       1174        96            62         18           0        2.6        1.6
5/13/2009      7:30:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5   1487        8.5         29       1258        102           68         30           0        2.4        1.4
5/13/2009      7:45:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5   1545        8.7         39       1351        84            55         16           0        2.3        1.3
5/13/2009      8:00:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5   1533        8.7         38       1338        66            74         16           1        2.3        1.3
5/13/2009      8:15:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5   1444        8.1         39       1257        78            54         16           0        2.5        1.5
5/13/2009      8:30:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5   1526        9.0         42       1290        77            84         32           1        2.4        1.3
5/13/2009      8:45:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5   1424        7.9         32       1254        63            56         19           0        2.5        1.5
5/13/2009      9:00:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5   1445        8.2         28       1261        71            62         23           0        2.5        1.5
5/13/2009      9:15:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5   1326        7.9         23       1104        80            79         40           0        3.4        2.1
5/13/2009      9:30:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5   1354        8.2         29       1114        91            73         47           0        3.3        2.0
5/13/2009      9:45:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5   1222        7.3         20       1016        77            76         33           0        2.9        1.9
5/13/2009      10:00:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5   1106        6.4         14       948         61            57         26           0        3.3        2.2
5/13/2009      10:15:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5   1046        6.4         23       849         67            67         40           0        3.4        2.3
5/13/2009      10:30:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5   1033        6.4         16       833         82            57         45           0        4.4        3.0
5/13/2009      10:45:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5   1025        6.2         18       829         89            57         29           3        3.5        2.4
5/13/2009      11:00:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5   1056        6.4         27       853         74            58         44           0        3.4        2.3
5/13/2009      11:15:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5   826         5.2         15       683         51            52         25           0        4.4        3.2
5/13/2009      11:30:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5   1043        6.3         20       852         71            67         33           0        3.5        2.4
5/13/2009      11:45:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5   997         6.1         23       807         78            48         41           0        3.6        2.5
5/13/2009      12:00:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5   954         5.7         15       788         63            62         26           0        3.8        2.7
5/13/2009      12:15:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5   952         6.1         15       756         69            62         50           0        3.8        2.6
5/13/2009      12:30:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5   968         5.9         21       776         64            79         28           0        3.7        2.6
5/13/2009      12:45:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5   991         5.9         22       803         78            63         25           0        3.6        2.6
5/13/2009      13:00:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5   983         5.9         16       798         82            53         34           0        3.7        2.6
5/13/2009      13:15:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5   1036        6.3         21       838         73            67         37           0        3.5        2.4
5/13/2009      13:30:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5   1010        6.0         24       820         72            75         19           0        3.6        2.5
5/13/2009      13:45:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5   1020        6.2         18       836         72            69         24           1        3.5        2.4
5/13/2009      14:00:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5   1066        6.4         24       859         83            74         26           0        3.4        2.3
5/13/2009      14:15:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5   1133        6.7         30       937         64            74         28           0        3.2        2.1
5/13/2009      14:30:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5   1163        6.9         25       963         81            68         26           0        3.1        2.0
5/13/2009      14:45:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5   1317        7.7         22       1094        104           76         21           0        2.7        1.7
5/13/2009      15:00:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5   1391        8.1         29       1170        94            71         27           0        2.6        1.5
5/13/2009      15:15:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5   1466        8.5         27       1207        142           67         23           0        2.5        1.4
5/13/2009      15:30:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5   1387        16.4        45       1015        188           106        31           2        2.6        0.5
5/13/2009      15:45:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5   1281        22.6        37       900         208           96         39           1        2.8      3741.4
5/13/2009      16:00:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5   1308        22.7        44       943         165           125        31           0        2.8      3664.1
       ATR     I-95/128 on SB side of roadway
  Location:    south of Grove Street
City, State:   Newton, MA
     Client:   VHB/ M. Santos
Site Code:     10085
 PDI File #:   91860 B
     Dates:    Wed 5/13 thru Thurs 5/14/09


                                                                                                 Classification
                                                                            1         2          3          4,5,6,7    8,9,10     11,12,13   Headway    GAP
   Date          Time     Direction    Lanes      Volume   Occupancy %
                                                                         0-10 ft   10-19 ft   19-24 ft     24-54 ft   54-109 ft   109 ft +     AVE      AVE
5/13/2009      16:15:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5   1327        22.4        44       961         186           106        27           3        3.4      4514.6
5/13/2009      16:30:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5   1181        27.0        37       880         139           93         28           4        3.0      4057.5
5/13/2009      16:45:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5   1309        24.6        49       1014        140           87         18           1        2.8      3661.1
5/13/2009      17:00:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5   1375        19.9        38       1087        141           87         22           0        2.6       0.0
5/13/2009      17:15:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5   1365        21.1        37       1078        130           99         21           0        2.6      3511.3
5/13/2009      17:30:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5   1387        21.0        37       1118        121           77         31           3        2.6      3455.7
5/13/2009      17:45:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5   1444        21.5        28       1193        123           79         19           2        2.5      3319.2
5/13/2009      18:00:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5   1475        17.1        41       1263        111           54         6            0        2.4       0.3
5/13/2009      18:15:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5   1582        16.0        45       1392        89            44         12           0        2.3       0.5
5/13/2009      18:30:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5   1496        16.6        35       1290        107           50         13           1        2.4       0.4
5/13/2009      18:45:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5   1445        10.4        34       1306        61            30         14           0        2.5       1.2
5/13/2009      19:00:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5   1258        6.7         17       1167        44            17         13           0        2.9       1.9
5/13/2009      19:15:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5   1000        5.3         12       916         32            31         9            0        3.6       2.6
5/13/2009      19:30:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5   970         5.2         15       879         37            21         18           0        3.7       2.7
5/13/2009      19:45:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5   783         4.1         6        726         26            15         10           0        4.6       3.6
5/13/2009      20:00:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5   709         3.7         7        657         20            15         10           0        5.1       4.1
5/13/2009      20:15:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5   631         3.4         14       575         20             9         13           0        5.7       4.7
5/13/2009      20:30:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5   676         3.7         6        628         19             8         15           0        5.3       4.3
5/13/2009      20:45:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5   631         3.7         8        562         23            25         13           0        5.7       4.7
5/13/2009      21:00:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5   564         3.1         7        519         16             9         13           0        6.4       5.4
5/13/2009      21:15:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5   492         2.8         6        453         12            14         6            1        7.3       6.3
5/13/2009      21:30:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5   470         2.6         3        436         12            13         6            0        7.7       6.6
5/13/2009      21:45:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5   469         2.7         9        425         11             9         15           0        7.7       6.6
5/13/2009      22:00:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5   411         2.4         3        372          8            16         12           0        8.8       7.7
5/13/2009      22:15:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5   420         2.4         7        385          8             9         11           0        8.6       7.6
5/13/2009      22:30:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5   401         2.4         7        349         16            12         17           0        9.0       7.9
5/13/2009      22:45:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5   325         1.8         5        294          7            11          8           0        11.1      10.1
5/13/2009      23:00:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5   276         1.6         2        250          5             7         12           0        13.0      12.0
5/13/2009      23:15:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5   256         1.5         5        215         12            17         6            1        14.1      13.0
5/13/2009      23:30:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5   240         1.5         3        208          5             8         16           0        15.0      13.9
5/13/2009      23:45:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5   186         1.2         1        158          8             8         11           0        19.4      18.2

                          Totals                  77390       6.5        1656      64214      5412          4166       1917         25        17.3     327.6
       ATR     I-95/128 on SB side of roadway
  Location:    south of Grove Street
City, State:   Newton, MA
     Client:   VHB/ M. Santos
Site Code:     10085
 PDI File #:   91860 B
     Dates:    Wed 5/13 thru Thurs 5/14/09


                                                                                                   Classification
                                                                              1         2          3          4,5,6,7    8,9,10     11,12,13   Headway    GAP
   Date          Time     Direction    Lanes      Volume     Occupancy %
                                                                           0-10 ft   10-19 ft   19-24 ft     24-54 ft   54-109 ft   109 ft +     AVE      AVE
5/14/2009      0:00:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5        140      0.9         0        115          9             9          7           0       25.7       24.6
5/14/2009      0:15:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5        111      0.8         1         88          4             8         10           0       32.4       31.2
5/14/2009      0:30:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5        109      0.8         0         81          6             6         16           0       33.0       31.7
5/14/2009      0:45:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5         69      0.4         0         58          3             4          4           0       52.2       51.0
5/14/2009      1:00:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5         60      0.4         0         45          1             9          5           0       60.0       58.7
5/14/2009      1:15:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5         67      0.5         0         51          0             11         5           0       53.7       52.4
5/14/2009      1:30:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5         84      0.7         1         53          6             13        11           0       42.9       41.4
5/14/2009      1:45:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5         52      0.4         0         36          1             5         10           0       69.2       67.7
5/14/2009      2:00:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5         46      0.4         1         28          2             8          7           0       78.3       76.7
5/14/2009      2:15:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5         61      0.5         0         35          4             14         8           0       59.0       57.5
5/14/2009      2:30:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5         44      0.4         1         24          2             7         10           0       81.8       80.0
5/14/2009      2:45:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5         34      0.4         1         14          1             8         10           0       105.9      103.8
5/14/2009      3:00:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5         45      0.4         2         26          2             10         5           0       80.0       78.4
5/14/2009      3:15:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5         45      0.4         2         27          2             9          5           0       80.0       78.5
5/14/2009      3:30:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5         44      0.4         1         22          3             5         13           0       81.8       80.0
5/14/2009      3:45:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5         48      0.4         1         25          3             11         8           0       75.0       73.4
5/14/2009      4:00:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5         59      0.5         3         33          2             10        11           0       61.0       59.4
5/14/2009      4:15:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5         59      0.5         1         33          5             9         11           0       61.0       59.4
5/14/2009      4:30:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5         85      0.7         3         56          1             11        13           1       42.4       40.8
5/14/2009      4:45:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5        122      1.0         3         75          2            23         19           0       29.5       28.0
5/14/2009      5:00:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5        139      1.0         3         96          6            19         15           0       25.9       24.6
5/14/2009      5:15:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5        167      1.2         3        112          9            23         20           0       21.6       20.3
5/14/2009      5:30:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5        257      1.6         4        197         20            16         20           0       14.0       12.9
5/14/2009      5:45:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5        435      2.7         5        339         27            32         32           0        8.3        7.2
5/14/2009      6:00:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5        583      3.3         7        472         43            41         20           0        6.2        5.2
5/14/2009      6:15:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5        840      4.7         9        678         78            48         27           0        4.3        3.3
5/14/2009      6:30:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5       1040      5.9         17       827         106           59         31           0        3.5        2.4
5/14/2009      6:45:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5       1302      7.5         24       1040        127           81         30           0        2.8        1.7
5/14/2009      7:00:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5       1277      7.1         18       1059        113           65         20           2        2.8        1.8
5/14/2009      7:15:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5       1233      6.8         28       1055        81            42         27           0        2.9        1.9
5/14/2009      7:30:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5       1404      8.0         32       1197        85            60         30           0        2.6        1.5
5/14/2009      7:45:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5       1477      8.3         29       1294        76            58         20           0        2.4        1.4
5/14/2009      8:00:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5       1415      13.9        47       1189        91            66         21           1        2.5        0.8
5/14/2009      8:15:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5       1378      15.6        74       1115        97            72         20           0        2.6        0.6
5/14/2009      8:30:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5       1576      9.6         44       1372        72            59         29           0        2.3        1.2
5/14/2009      8:45:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5       1528      9.0         41       1323        67            62         35           0        2.4        1.3
5/14/2009      9:00:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5       1413      8.0         32       1222        79            65         15           0        2.5        1.5
5/14/2009      9:15:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5       1365      8.1         29       1172        63            71         30           0        2.6        1.6
5/14/2009      9:30:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5       1318      8.0         31       1095        81            68         43           0        2.7        1.6
5/14/2009      9:45:00      SB        1,2,3,4,5       1344      8.2         19       1138        84            62         41           0        2.7        1.6
5/14/2009      10:00:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5       1178      7.0         24       998         63            66         27           0        3.1        2.0
5/14/2009      10:15:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5       1078      6.2         27       911         61            53         26           0        4.2        2.9
5/14/2009      10:30:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5       1065      6.5         22       894         66            51         31           1        3.4        2.3
5/14/2009      10:45:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5        963      5.8         18       796         59            67         22           1        3.7        2.7
5/14/2009      11:00:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5        938      5.7         19       776         57            60         26           0        3.8        2.7
5/14/2009      11:15:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5        898      5.6         17       730         69            54         28           0        4.0        2.9
5/14/2009      11:30:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5        951      5.8         18       792         51            56         34           0        3.8        2.7
5/14/2009      11:45:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5        984      5.9         21       804         75            53         31           0        3.7        2.6
5/14/2009      12:00:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5        991      5.9         14       816         76            55         30           0        3.6        2.6
5/14/2009      12:15:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5        970      5.9         13       800         60            71         26           0        3.7        2.6
5/14/2009      12:30:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5       1052      6.4         12       877         65            74         23           1        3.4        2.3
5/14/2009      12:45:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5       1084      6.5         23       892         63            73         33           0        3.3        2.2
5/14/2009      13:00:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5       1013      6.1         20       848         63            53         29           0        3.6        2.5
5/14/2009      13:15:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5        978      5.8         18       791         85            61         23           0        3.7        2.6
5/14/2009      13:30:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5       1008      5.8         16       867         59            41         25           0        3.6        2.5
5/14/2009      13:45:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5       1110      6.5         22       940         62            67         19           0        3.2        2.2
5/14/2009      14:00:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5       1037      6.2         29       845         81            57         25           0        3.5        2.4
5/14/2009      14:15:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5       1122      6.8         19       941         73            63         26           0        3.2        2.1
5/14/2009      14:30:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5       1216      7.4         18       1051        65            55         27           0        3.0        1.9
5/14/2009      14:45:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5       1344      8.3         20       1150        81            70         22           1        2.7        1.6
5/14/2009      15:00:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5       1372      8.6         28       1127        101           93         23           0        2.6        1.5
5/14/2009      15:15:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5       1300      14.5        45       994         152           92         15           2        2.8        0.8
5/14/2009      15:30:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5       1256      17.0        43       925         162           104        21           1        2.9        0.4
5/14/2009      15:45:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5       1179      24.8        54       843         133           120        25           4        3.1      4064.7
5/14/2009      16:00:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5       1245      21.5        33       893         156           140        21           2        3.6      4812.2
       ATR     I-95/128 on SB side of roadway
  Location:    south of Grove Street
City, State:   Newton, MA
     Client:   VHB/ M. Santos
Site Code:     10085
 PDI File #:   91860 B
     Dates:    Wed 5/13 thru Thurs 5/14/09


                                                                                                   Classification
                                                                              1         2          3          4,5,6,7    8,9,10     11,12,13   Headway    GAP
   Date          Time     Direction    Lanes      Volume     Occupancy %
                                                                           0-10 ft   10-19 ft   19-24 ft     24-54 ft   54-109 ft   109 ft +     AVE      AVE
5/14/2009      16:15:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5       1136      24.7        30       831         130           110        29           6        3.2      4218.6
5/14/2009      16:30:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5       1286      19.5        44       1009        127           78         27           1        2.8       0.1
5/14/2009      16:45:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5       1294      22.9        42       1011        133           85         18           5        2.8      3703.8
5/14/2009      17:00:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5       1305      23.3        50       1027        119           86         23           0        2.8      3672.5
5/14/2009      17:15:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5       1530      19.4        33       1269        126           84         15           3        2.9       0.1
5/14/2009      17:30:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5       1476      18.2        36       1269        82            78         9            2        2.4       0.2
5/14/2009      17:45:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5       1573      16.0        45       1385        80            49         14           0        2.3       0.5
5/14/2009      18:00:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5       1549      16.9        54       1336        93            52         14           0        2.3       0.4
5/14/2009      18:15:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5       1469      12.3        71       1288        59            43         8            0        2.5       0.9
5/14/2009      18:30:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5       1391      11.6        77       1239        40            23         12           0        2.6       1.1
5/14/2009      18:45:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5       1391      7.8         22       1285        41            27         16           0        2.6       1.6
5/14/2009      19:00:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5       1198      6.3         21       1105        38            22         12           0        3.0       2.1
5/14/2009      19:15:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5        965      5.1         10       895         35            16         9            0        4.7       3.5
5/14/2009      19:30:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5        897      5.0         14       814         28            27         14           0        4.0       3.0
5/14/2009      19:45:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5        733      4.1         3        684         21            15         10           0        6.1       4.9
5/14/2009      20:00:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5        716      4.2         8        646         35            17         10           0        6.3       5.0
5/14/2009      20:15:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5        657      3.8         8        598         25            16         10           0        5.5       4.4
5/14/2009      20:30:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5        562      3.4         3        519         17             9         14           0        6.4       5.3
5/14/2009      20:45:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5        567      3.3         4        536         15             7         5            0        6.3       5.3
5/14/2009      21:00:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5        520      3.1         8        473         17            11         11           0        6.9       5.9
5/14/2009      21:15:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5        509      3.0         8        463         14            13         11           0        8.8       7.5
5/14/2009      21:30:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5        457      2.7         4        431         12             4         6            0        7.9       6.8
5/14/2009      21:45:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5        452      2.8         4        410          9            17         12           0        8.0       6.9
5/14/2009      22:00:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5        410      2.5         6        374          9             8         13           0        8.8       7.7
5/14/2009      22:15:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5        391      2.3         5        355         11            10         10           0        9.2       8.1
5/14/2009      22:30:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5        398      2.4         4        364          8             9         13           0        9.0       8.0
5/14/2009      22:45:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5        337      2.0         1        308          8            11         9            0        10.7      9.6
5/14/2009      23:00:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5        277      1.7         4        247          6             9         11           0        13.0      11.9
5/14/2009      23:15:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5        273      1.6         4        239          9             9         12           0        13.2      12.1
5/14/2009      23:30:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5        222      1.4         3        190          6            12         11           0        16.2      15.1
5/14/2009      23:45:00     SB        1,2,3,4,5        196      1.2         1        177          4             1         13           0        18.4      17.3

                          Totals                  76344         6.4        1737      63995      4859          3966       1753         34        16.8     228.6
       ATR     I-95/128 on NB side of roadway
  Location:    north of Washington Street (Route 16)
City, State:   Newton, MA
     Client:   VHB/ M. Santos
Site Code:     10085
 PDI File #:   91860 B
     Dates:    Wed 5/13 thru Thurs 5/14/09


                                                                                                 Classification
                                                                            1         2          3         4,5,6,7     8,9,10     11,12,13   Headway   GAP
   Date          Time     Direction    Lanes      Volume   Occupancy %
                                                                         0-10 ft   10-19 ft   19-24 ft     24-54 ft   54-109 ft   109 ft +     AVE     AVE
5/13/2009      0:00:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5   123         0.7          5       107          2            7           2           0       29.3      28.2
5/13/2009      0:15:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5   126         0.8         11        98          7            7           3           0       28.6      27.5
5/13/2009      0:30:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5    93         0.6          6        72          6             8          1           0       38.7      37.6
5/13/2009      0:45:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5    87         0.5          1        73          5             7          1           0       41.4      40.3
5/13/2009      1:00:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5    60         0.5          1        37          7            11          4           0       60.0      58.6
5/13/2009      1:15:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5    61         0.4          3        40          8             8          2           0       59.0      57.8
5/13/2009      1:30:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5    51         0.4          7        28          4             7          5           0       70.6      69.2
5/13/2009      1:45:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5    56         0.3          5        42          5             4          0           0       64.3      63.2
5/13/2009      2:00:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5    50         0.4          4        27          4            13          2           0       72.0      70.6
5/13/2009      2:15:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5    53         0.4          3        36          6             7          1           0       34.0      33.3
5/13/2009      2:30:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5    23         0.2          1        13          3             3          3           0       156.5     154.9
5/13/2009      2:45:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5    47         0.4          0        29          7             4          7           0       76.6      75.1
5/13/2009      3:00:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5    37         0.3          4        16          7             7          3           0       73.0      71.8
5/13/2009      3:15:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5    52         0.4          6        25          7            12          2           0       51.9      50.9
5/13/2009      3:30:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5    53         0.4          1        31          6            12          3           0       67.9      66.5
5/13/2009      3:45:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5    67         0.5          5        39          2            18          3           0       53.7      52.3
5/13/2009      4:00:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5    51         0.4          1        37          0             8          5           0       52.9      51.9
5/13/2009      4:15:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5    59         0.4          4        38          5             9          3           0       61.0      59.7
5/13/2009      4:30:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5   112         0.8          3        77         10            17         5            0       40.2      38.6
5/13/2009      4:45:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5   132         0.9          9        99          9            11          4           0       34.1      32.6
5/13/2009      5:00:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5   193         1.2         11       128         13            35         6            0       18.7      17.5
5/13/2009      5:15:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5   257         1.4         15       181         21            36         4            0       17.5      16.3
5/13/2009      5:30:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5   396         2.1         18       296         44            29         9            0       11.4      10.2
5/13/2009      5:45:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5   602         3.2         32       441         73            41         15           0        7.5       6.3
5/13/2009      6:00:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5   741         3.7         41       570         78            40         12           0        6.1       4.9
5/13/2009      6:15:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5   995         5.2         73       723         116           66         17           0        4.5       3.3
5/13/2009      6:30:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5   1217        6.4         80       937         116           64         20           0        3.7       2.5
5/13/2009      6:45:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5   1485        7.9         118      1157        121           67         22           0        3.0       1.8
5/13/2009      7:00:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5   1585        8.4         105      1309        87            68         16           0        2.8       1.6
5/13/2009      7:15:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5   1692        9.0         153      1359        99            72         9            0        2.7       1.5
5/13/2009      7:30:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5   1791        10.4        153      1479        84            62         13           0        2.5       1.2
5/13/2009      7:45:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5   1751        11.1        252      1364        68            60         7            0        2.6       1.1
5/13/2009      8:00:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5   1786        15.0        268      1335        94            67         22           0        2.5       0.6
5/13/2009      8:15:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5   1849        10.6        163      1560        71            46         9            0        2.4       1.1
5/13/2009      8:30:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5   1919        11.6        129      1656        72            43         19           0        2.3       1.0
5/13/2009      8:45:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5   1820        12.6        118      1539        89            60         14           0        2.5       0.9
5/13/2009      9:00:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5   1797        12.1        80       1475        146           63         33           0        2.5       1.0
5/13/2009      9:15:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5   1602        9.8         29       1351        127           61         34           0        2.8       1.4
5/13/2009      9:30:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5   1517        9.4         30       1267        120           62         38           0        3.0       1.6
5/13/2009      9:45:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5   1532        9.3         37       1267        117           73         37           1        2.9       1.6
5/13/2009      10:00:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   1204        7.2         12       1002        106           55         29           0        3.7       2.4
5/13/2009      10:15:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   1148        6.9         17       921         112           68         30           0        3.9       2.6
5/13/2009      10:30:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   982         6.0          9       776         112           61         24           0        4.6       3.2
5/13/2009      10:45:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   1007        6.2         10       813         99            56         29           0        4.5       3.1
5/13/2009      11:00:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   1057        6.6         17       811         140           52         37           0        4.3       2.9
5/13/2009      11:15:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   1055        6.4         11       842         126           53         23           0        4.3       2.9
5/13/2009      11:30:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   1089        6.7         18       843         129           67         32           0        4.1       2.7
5/13/2009      11:45:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   1040        6.3         16       808         134           56         26           0        4.3       3.0
5/13/2009      12:00:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   1051        6.4         11       838         129           50         23           0        4.3       2.9
5/13/2009      12:15:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   1058        6.6         13       807         133           71         34           0        4.3       2.8
5/13/2009      12:30:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   1149        7.1         16       880         148           83         22           0        3.9       2.5
5/13/2009      12:45:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   1113        6.9         13       859         142           75         24           0        4.0       2.7
5/13/2009      13:00:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   1058        6.3         13       838         115           70         22           0        4.3       2.9
5/13/2009      13:15:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   1134        6.9         27       869         126           79         33           0        4.0       2.6
5/13/2009      13:30:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   1094        6.6         22       856         134           56         26           0        4.1       2.7
5/13/2009      13:45:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   1148        7.0         13       915         133           60         27           0        3.9       2.5
5/13/2009      14:00:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   1078        6.6         19       834         128           75         22           0        4.2       2.8
5/13/2009      14:15:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   1338        8.1         24       1055        156           84         19           0        3.4       2.0
5/13/2009      14:30:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   1191        7.0         13       957         143           60         18           0        3.8       2.5
5/13/2009      14:45:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   1415        8.2         28       1137        172           65         13           0        3.2       1.9
5/13/2009      15:00:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   1451        8.8         25       1155        173           70         28           0        3.1       1.7
5/13/2009      15:15:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   1630        9.8         44       1274        203           83         26           0        2.8       1.4
5/13/2009      15:30:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   825         4.5         180      541         58            34         12           0        5.5       4.2
5/13/2009      15:45:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   648         3.4         169      409         41            26         3            0        6.9       5.8
5/13/2009      16:00:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   1267        7.1         53       1028        129           43         14           0        3.6       2.3
       ATR     I-95/128 on NB side of roadway
  Location:    north of Washington Street (Route 16)
City, State:   Newton, MA
     Client:   VHB/ M. Santos
Site Code:     10085
 PDI File #:   91860 B
     Dates:    Wed 5/13 thru Thurs 5/14/09


                                                                                                 Classification
                                                                            1         2          3         4,5,6,7     8,9,10     11,12,13   Headway   GAP
   Date          Time     Direction    Lanes      Volume   Occupancy %
                                                                         0-10 ft   10-19 ft   19-24 ft     24-54 ft   54-109 ft   109 ft +     AVE     AVE
5/13/2009      16:15:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   1125        6.3         115      884          90           24         12           0        4.0      2.7
5/13/2009      16:30:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   655         3.2         147      450          34           22         2            0        6.9      5.8
5/13/2009      16:45:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   648         3.3         161      439          27           19         2            0        6.9      5.8
5/13/2009      17:00:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   1120        6.2         93       946          43           26         12           0        4.0      2.8
5/13/2009      17:15:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   1423        8.0         164      1149         70           31         9            0        3.2      1.9
5/13/2009      17:30:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   1343        7.3         171      1081         59           24         8            0        3.4      2.1
5/13/2009      17:45:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   1479        8.5         112      1261         67           31         8            0        3.0      1.7
5/13/2009      18:00:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   1444        7.8         37       1297         78           23         9            0        3.1      1.9
5/13/2009      18:15:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   1437        7.8         34       1297         72           24         10           0        3.1      1.9
5/13/2009      18:30:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   1329        7.1         36       1197         54           25         17           0        3.4      2.2
5/13/2009      18:45:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   1228        6.4         23       1131         46           23         5            0        3.7      2.5
5/13/2009      19:00:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   1069        5.6         27       952          53           31         6            0        4.2      3.0
5/13/2009      19:15:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   915         4.7         22       834          30           22         7            0        4.9      3.8
5/13/2009      19:30:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   826         4.3         25       752          24           17         8            0        5.4      4.3
5/13/2009      19:45:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   737         3.7         27       659          32           14         5            0        6.1      5.0
5/13/2009      20:00:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   621         3.2         23       556          22           16         4            0        7.2      6.1
5/13/2009      20:15:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   711         3.6         31       633          27           16         4            0        6.3      5.2
5/13/2009      20:30:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   597         3.1         31       533          13           15         5            0        7.5      6.4
5/13/2009      20:45:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   658         3.6         47       564          21           19         7            0        6.8      5.6
5/13/2009      21:00:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   217         1.7         21       187          5            2          2            0        16.6     15.2
5/13/2009      21:15:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5    0          0.0          0        0           0             0          0           0        0.0      0.0
5/13/2009      21:30:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5    0          0.0          0        0           0             0          0           0        0.0      0.0
5/13/2009      21:45:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5    0          0.0          0        0           0             0          0           0        0.0      0.0
5/13/2009      22:00:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   311         2.6         22       266          17           3          3            0        11.6     10.1
5/13/2009      22:15:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   377         2.2         19       332          12           11         3            0        9.5      8.5
5/13/2009      22:30:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   348         2.0         22       308          8            9          1            0        10.3     9.3
5/13/2009      22:45:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   336         2.1         15       294          10           13         4            0        10.7     9.6
5/13/2009      23:00:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   218         1.3         13       184          8            11         2            0        16.5     15.4
5/13/2009      23:15:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   246         1.5         19       214          4            7          2            0        14.6     13.6
5/13/2009      23:30:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   189         1.2         10       154          7            14         4            0        19.0     17.9
5/13/2009      23:45:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   173         1.0         11       147          8            6          1            0        20.8     19.8

                          Totals                  77930       4.8        4256      63127      6028         3345        1173          1        16.6     15.4
       ATR     I-95/128 on NB side of roadway
  Location:    north of Washington Street (Route 16)
City, State:   Newton, MA
     Client:   VHB/ M. Santos
Site Code:     10085
 PDI File #:   91860 B
     Dates:    Wed 5/13 thru Thurs 5/14/09


                                                                                                 Classification
                                                                            1         2          3         4,5,6,7     8,9,10     11,12,13   Headway    GAP
   Date          Time     Direction    Lanes      Volume   Occupancy %
                                                                         0-10 ft   10-19 ft   19-24 ft     24-54 ft   54-109 ft   109 ft +     AVE      AVE
5/14/2009      0:00:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5   131         0.8          6       111          7             6          1           0        27.5      26.4
5/14/2009      0:15:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5   103         0.6          5        87          3             7          1           0        35.0      33.8
5/14/2009      0:30:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5    82         0.6          2        67          4             5          4           0        43.9      42.7
5/14/2009      0:45:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5    68         0.4          2        56          4             5          1           0        39.7      38.8
5/14/2009      1:00:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5    72         0.5          1        59          3             8          1           0        50.0      48.8
5/14/2009      1:15:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5    68         0.5          3        52          4             7          2           0        52.9      51.7
5/14/2009      1:30:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5    41         0.3          2        28          2             6          3           0        65.9      64.9
5/14/2009      1:45:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5    55         0.4          4        37          5             7          2           0        65.5      64.2
5/14/2009      2:00:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5    55         0.4          3        36          5            10          1           0        49.1      48.2
5/14/2009      2:15:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5    41         0.3          2        27          7             3          2           0        65.9      64.9
5/14/2009      2:30:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5    36         0.3          3        24          3             4          2           0        75.0      74.0
5/14/2009      2:45:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5    44         0.3          2        25          6             9          2           0        61.4      60.3
5/14/2009      3:00:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5    46         0.3          2        28          7             7          2           0        78.3      76.9
5/14/2009      3:15:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5    38         0.3          4        24          5             4          1           0        94.7      93.5
5/14/2009      3:30:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5    37         0.3          1        24          3             6          3           0        73.0      71.9
5/14/2009      3:45:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5    57         0.5          1        28          10           15          3           0        63.2      61.7
5/14/2009      4:00:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5    60         0.6          2        35          2            11         10           0        60.0      58.2
5/14/2009      4:15:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5    69         0.5          2        46          5            12          4           0        39.1      38.1
5/14/2009      4:30:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5    88         0.7          3        53          11           16          5           0        51.1      49.4
5/14/2009      4:45:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5   158         1.1          4       109         17            22         6            0        28.5      26.9
5/14/2009      5:00:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5   155         1.0          4       108         12            20         11           0        29.0      27.6
5/14/2009      5:15:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5   263         1.6          8       186         26            31         12           0        17.1      15.8
5/14/2009      5:30:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5   408         2.3         18       289         49            41         11           0        11.0      9.8
5/14/2009      5:45:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5   581         3.1         12       450         63            45         11           0        7.7       6.5
5/14/2009      6:00:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5   744         3.9         31       546         97            54         16           0        6.0       4.9
5/14/2009      6:15:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5   1000        5.3         49       741         130           64         16           0        4.5       3.3
5/14/2009      6:30:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5   1283        6.7         74       986         130           78         15           0        3.5       2.3
5/14/2009      6:45:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5   1503        8.0         76       1228        132           53         14           0        3.0       1.8
5/14/2009      7:00:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5   1648        9.0         94       1336        118           79         21           0        2.7       1.5
5/14/2009      7:15:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5   1738        9.5         145      1416        98            66         13           0        2.6       1.4
5/14/2009      7:30:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5   1655        10.6        159      1348        77            55         16           0        2.7       1.3
5/14/2009      7:45:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5   1038        6.8         68       881         48            37         4            0        4.3       2.9
5/14/2009      8:00:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5   1062        6.8         60       928         47            24         3            0        4.2       2.8
5/14/2009      8:15:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5   1376        9.9         118      1141        60            49         8            0        3.3       1.7
5/14/2009      8:30:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5   1871        17.6        201      1475        104           63         28           0        2.4       0.3
5/14/2009      8:45:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5   1815        21.3        71       1479        148           88         28           1        2.5      3300.9
5/14/2009      9:00:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5   1708        20.5        103      1353        135           85         30           2        2.6      3507.8
5/14/2009      9:15:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5   1755        20.1        78       1378        169           94         34           2        2.6      3413.9
5/14/2009      9:30:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5   1651        10.8        94       1321        139           69         27           1        2.7       1.2
5/14/2009      9:45:00      NB        1,2,3,4,5   1383        7.9         20       1177        99            68         19           0        3.3       2.0
5/14/2009      10:00:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   1458        9.1         43       1162        145           71         37           0        3.1       1.7
5/14/2009      10:15:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   1277        7.5         30       1044        98            71         34           0        3.5       2.2
5/14/2009      10:30:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   1232        7.3         29       974         124           75         30           0        3.7       2.3
5/14/2009      10:45:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   1059        6.2         18       861         87            62         31           0        4.2       2.9
5/14/2009      11:00:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   1021        6.1         37       810         79            76         19           0        4.4       3.1
5/14/2009      11:15:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   1118        6.3         21       938         86            59         14           0        4.0       2.8
5/14/2009      11:30:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   1095        6.5         21       903         82            55         34           0        4.1       2.8
5/14/2009      11:45:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   1106        6.4         23       894         100           64         25           0        4.1       2.8
5/14/2009      12:00:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   1150        6.9         33       921         92            73         31           0        3.9       2.6
5/14/2009      12:15:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   1086        6.4         24       883         103           56         20           0        4.1       2.8
5/14/2009      12:30:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   1080        6.1         23       888         93            66         10           0        4.2       2.9
5/14/2009      12:45:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   1076        6.2         25       885         90            52         24           0        4.2       2.9
5/14/2009      13:00:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   1045        6.2         40       852         84            49         20           0        4.3       3.0
5/14/2009      13:15:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   1082        6.1         24       876         94            71         17           0        4.2       2.9
5/14/2009      13:30:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   1123        6.5         29       921         88            63         22           0        4.0       2.7
5/14/2009      13:45:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   1084        6.1         25       888         92            67         12           0        4.2       2.9
5/14/2009      14:00:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   1090        6.4         20       879         94            80         17           0        4.1       2.8
5/14/2009      14:15:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   1202        7.1         26       998         107           55         16           0        3.7       2.4
5/14/2009      14:30:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   1266        7.6         34       1039        109           61         23           0        3.6       2.2
5/14/2009      14:45:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   1350        7.9         45       1096        130           64         15           0        3.3       2.0
5/14/2009      15:00:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   1409        8.3         62       1160        116           55         16           0        3.2       1.9
5/14/2009      15:15:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   1552        9.6         96       1274        103           67         12           0        2.9       1.5
5/14/2009      15:30:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   1692        10.6        83       1390        144           54         21           0        2.7       1.3
5/14/2009      15:45:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   1597        9.9         74       1287        145           74         17           0        2.8       1.4
5/14/2009      16:00:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   1536        9.3         89       1257        130           44         16           0        2.9       1.6
       ATR     I-95/128 on NB side of roadway
  Location:    north of Washington Street (Route 16)
City, State:   Newton, MA
     Client:   VHB/ M. Santos
Site Code:     10085
 PDI File #:   91860 B
     Dates:    Wed 5/13 thru Thurs 5/14/09


                                                                                                 Classification
                                                                            1         2          3         4,5,6,7     8,9,10     11,12,13   Headway   GAP
   Date          Time     Direction    Lanes      Volume   Occupancy %
                                                                         0-10 ft   10-19 ft   19-24 ft     24-54 ft   54-109 ft   109 ft +     AVE     AVE
5/14/2009      16:15:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   1637        9.6         89       1408         97           34         9            0        2.7      1.4
5/14/2009      16:30:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   1613        9.0         47       1431         85           40         10           0        2.8      1.5
5/14/2009      16:45:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   1572        9.2         66       1383         80           36         7            0        2.9      1.5
5/14/2009      17:00:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   1559        8.5         54       1394         65           34         12           0        2.9      1.7
5/14/2009      17:15:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   1716        9.4         74       1539         74           20         9            0        2.6      1.4
5/14/2009      17:30:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   1777        9.8         58       1622         68           20         9            0        2.5      1.3
5/14/2009      17:45:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   1664        9.3         70       1489         65           32         8            0        2.7      1.4
5/14/2009      18:00:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   1518        8.6         63       1360         66           21         8            0        3.0      1.7
5/14/2009      18:15:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   1460        8.1         38       1362         40           18         2            0        3.1      1.8
5/14/2009      18:30:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   1346        7.1         36       1226         60           20         4            0        3.3      2.2
5/14/2009      18:45:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   1236        6.5         32       1122         52           25         5            0        3.6      2.5
5/14/2009      19:00:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   1118        5.8         19       1039         32           17         11           0        4.0      2.9
5/14/2009      19:15:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   951         4.8         23       877          36           12         3            0        4.7      3.6
5/14/2009      19:30:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   810         4.2         14       739          28           22         7            0        5.6      4.4
5/14/2009      19:45:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   709         3.8         15       632          39           14         9            0        6.3      5.1
5/14/2009      20:00:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   727         3.9         20       655          32           14         6            0        6.2      5.0
5/14/2009      20:15:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   667         3.7         25       599          28           10         5            0        6.7      5.5
5/14/2009      20:30:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   587         3.3         20       531          21           8          7            0        7.7      6.4
5/14/2009      20:45:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   583         3.4         23       526          17           6          11           0        7.7      6.4
5/14/2009      21:00:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   505         2.9         16       450          19           12         8            0        8.9      7.6
5/14/2009      21:15:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   488         2.8         16       433          18           15         6            0        9.2      7.9
5/14/2009      21:30:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   515         2.9         13       465          19           16         2            0        8.7      7.5
5/14/2009      21:45:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   470         2.7         5        435          19           9          2            0        9.6      8.3
5/14/2009      22:00:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   422         2.5         14       378          7            16         7            0        10.7     9.4
5/14/2009      22:15:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   383         2.2         10       336          14           15         8            0        11.8     10.5
5/14/2009      22:30:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   358         2.0         13       315          13           10         7            0        12.6     11.3
5/14/2009      22:45:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   285         1.6         4        257          10           8          6            0        15.8     14.5
5/14/2009      23:00:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   281         1.6         8        248          10           8          7            0        16.0     14.8
5/14/2009      23:15:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   205         1.2         3        180          10           7          5            0        22.0     20.7
5/14/2009      23:30:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   171         1.0         7        145          5            8          6            0        26.3     25.0
5/14/2009      23:45:00     NB        1,2,3,4,5   226         1.2         4        206          9            6          1            0        19.9     18.7

                          Totals                  84331       5.5        3410      70585      5747         3450        1133          6        16.5     121.7
                                                                 PRECISION
Grove Street                                                     D A T A
just east of Pine Grove Avenue                                   INDUSTRIES, LLC
City,State: Newton, MA                                        P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
Client: VHB/ E. Guidoboni                                Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234                                 102156 BB Volume
                                                             Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                               Site Code: 10865.00

                                                                                                                                    25-Mar-
 Start                  WB                                     EB                                         Combined
                                                                                                                                       10
 Time        A.M.                  P.M.           A.M.                       P.M.                  A.M.               P.M.            Thu
  12:00          2                   24              2                       32                      4                 56
  12:15          3                   30              0                       36                      3                 66
  12:30          7                   36              2                       35                      9                 71
  12:45          3      15           34   124        0           4           48            151       3       19        82    275
  01:00          8                   32              5                       38                     13                 70
  01:15          0                   38              0                       26                      0                 64
  01:30          1                   27              0                       35                      1                 62
  01:45          1      10           38   135        1           6           38            137       2       16        76    272
  02:00          1                   38              0                       32                      1                 70
  02:15          1                   31              0                       38                      1                 69
  02:30          1                   36              0                       32                      1                 68
  02:45          1       4           32   137        0           0           44            146       1        4        76    283
  03:00          0                   42              0                       52                      0                 94
  03:15          0                   36              0                       46                      0                 82
  03:30          2                   44              0                       54                      2                 98
  03:45          1       3           31   153        2           2           32            184       3        5        63    337
  04:00          0                   52              0                       61                      0                113
  04:15          3                   61              1                       41                      4                102
  04:30          4                   42              2                       42                      6                 84
  04:45          1       8           54   209        2           5           50            194       3       13       104    403
  05:00          2                   40              0                       50                      2                 90
  05:15          4                   74              2                       50                      6                124
  05:30         14                   72              8                       46                     22                118
  05:45         13      33           91   277       10          20           55            201      23       53       146    478
  06:00         11                   78             11                       97                     22                175
  06:15         20                   56             11                       57                     31                113
  06:30         38                   50             29                       44                     67                 94
  06:45         50     119           52   236       34          85           44            242      84     204         96    478
  07:00         30                   56             56                       30                     86                 86
  07:15         32                   36             52                       50                     84                 86
  07:30         28                   36             76                       34                    104                 70
  07:45         36     126           24   152       91        275            21            135     127     401         45    287
  08:00         31                   34             94                       16                    125                 50
  08:15         30                   16             75                       27                    105                 43
  08:30         32                   16             78                       20                    110                 36
  08:45         38     131           16    82       88        335            14              77    126     466         30    159
  09:00         32                   19             79                       17                    111                 36
  09:15         52                   16             72                       24                    124                 40
  09:30         32                   14             63                       23                     95                 37
  09:45         18     134           24    73       34        248            17              81     52     382         41    154
  10:00         26                   13             42                        9                     68                 22
  10:15         22                    7             34                        8                     56                 15
  10:30         32                   12             22                       13                     54                 25
  10:45         38     118            7    39       31        129             6              36     69     247         13     75
  11:00         23                    4             31                       10                     54                 14
  11:15         32                    1             37                        0                     69                  1
  11:30         26                    4             44                        2                     70                  6
  11:45         36     117            7    16       44        156             5              17     80     273         12     33
   Total      818                 1633           1265                     1601                    2083               3234
 Percent    39.3%                50.5%          60.7%                    49.5%

Day Total                2451                                    2866                                         5317


    Peak    08:30                05:15          07:45                     05:30                   08:30              05:15
     Vol.     154                  315            338                       255                     471                563
   P.H.F.   0.740                0.865          0.899                     0.657                   0.935              0.804




                                                                                                                                              Page 1
                                                                    PRECISION
Grove Street                                                        D A T A
just west of Deforest Road                                          INDUSTRIES, LLC
City,State: Newton, MA                                           P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
Client: VHB/ J. DeGray                                      Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234                                   102156 A Volume
                                                                Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                  Site Code: 10865.00

                                                                                                                                       22-Mar-
 Start                  WB                                        EB                                         Combined
                                                                                                                                         10
 Time        A.M.                     P.M.           A.M.                       P.M.                  A.M.               P.M.           Mon
  12:00          5                      70             10                       42                     15                112
  12:15         14                      64              6                       46                     20                110
  12:30          2                      52              3                       44                      5                 96
  12:45          5       26             52   238        1          20           48            180       6       46       100    418
  01:00          3                      48              5                       70                      8                118
  01:15          8                      55              3                       54                     11                109
  01:30          1                      70              2                       44                      3                114
  01:45          1       13             53   226        0          10           52            220       1       23       105    446
  02:00          0                      65              1                       53                      1                118
  02:15          1                      87              0                       44                      1                131
  02:30          4                      84              2                       39                      6                123
  02:45          2           7          65   301        2           5           58            194       4       12       123    495
  03:00          1                      90              0                       43                      1                133
  03:15          2                      97              1                       61                      3                158
  03:30          1                    112               0                       40                      1                152
  03:45          4           8        103    402        2           3           53            197       6       11       156    599
  04:00          7                      84              1                       43                      8                127
  04:15          1                    106               2                       38                      3                144
  04:30          2                    137               1                       54                      3                191
  04:45          4       14           136    463        4           8           62            197       8       22       198    660
  05:00          3                    171              10                       68                     13                239
  05:15          7                    171              12                       61                     19                232
  05:30         11                    156              20                       60                     31                216
  05:45         13       34           147    645       28          70           66            255      41     104        213    900
  06:00         15                    126              38                       58                     53                184
  06:15         35                    100              58                       43                     93                143
  06:30         34                      88             64                       48                     98                136
  06:45         63      147             90   404       78        238            52            201     141     385        142    605
  07:00         62                      78           114                        40                    176                118
  07:15         70                      58           101                        28                    171                 86
  07:30         82                      46           128                        36                    210                 82
  07:45         86      300             60   242     132         475            28            132     218     775         88    374
  08:00         98                      42           162                        35                    260                 77
  08:15         98                      69           133                        30                    231                 99
  08:30       103                       37           134                        21                    237                 58
  08:45         85      384             25   173     124         553            23            109     209     937         48    282
  09:00         70                      27           130                        24                    200                 51
  09:15         74                      18             88                       23                    162                 41
  09:30         66                      29             92                       18                    158                 47
  09:45         64      274             27   101       73        383            22              87    137     657         49    188
  10:00         44                      19             60                        8                    104                 27
  10:15         45                      13             62                       15                    107                 28
  10:30         55                      20             36                       12                     91                 32
  10:45         55      199             12    64       54        212             8              43    109     411         20    107
  11:00         57                       8             47                        9                    104                 17
  11:15         54                      14             38                       14                     92                 28
  11:30         60                      13             42                        4                    102                 17
  11:45         70      241             14    49       74        201             8              35    144     442         22     84
   Total     1647                    3308           2178                     1850                    3825               5158
 Percent    43.1%                   64.1%          56.9%                    35.9%

Day Total                    4955                                   4028                                         8983


    Peak    07:45                   05:00          07:45                     05:00                   07:45              05:00
     Vol.     385                     645            561                       255                     946                900
   P.H.F.   0.934                   0.943          0.866                     0.938                   0.910              0.941




                                                                                                                                                 Page 2
                  Route 128 / I-95
 ATR Location:
                  NB & SB north of Route 30 Interchange
  City, State:    Weston, MA
    Client:       VHB/ M. Kealey
  Site Code:      10865
  PDI File #:     102377
    Dates:        Wednesday 11/17 thru Thursday 11/18/2010

                             NB (Peak Periods)                                             SB (Peak Periods)
                   Wednesday 11/17/10    Thursday 11/18/10                       Wednesday 11/17/10    Thursday 11/18/10
                    AM          PM        AM          PM                          AM          PM        AM          PM
     12:00           91        1190       196        1169                         123        1195       147        1279
     12:15           73        1148       122        1152                         122        1090       127        1214
     12:30           83        1195       152        1209                         101        1235       116        1253
     12:45           217       1160       119        1232                         72         1270       76         1292
     1:00            89        1130        95        1186                         71         1156       74         1149
     1:15            86        1159        80        1226                         54         1190       66         1155
     1:30            61        1246        85        1257                         60         1257       42         1235
     1:45            56        1228        67        1268                         51         1246       48         1304
     2:00            70        1227        48        1245                         58         1268       45         1342
     2:15            44        1321        51        1315                         42         1426       44         1385
     2:30            44        1297        53        1450                         39         1434       47         1551
     2:45            44        1486        59        1555                         37         1479       54         1575
     3:00            34        1509        40        1534                         46         1585       42         1650
     3:15            55        1554        48        1593                         50         1644       57         1683
     3:30            62        1696        41        1803                         57         1865       47         1967
     3:45            56        1610        52        1735                         40         1892       52         1895
     4:00            36        1644        56        1651                         55         1816       56         1851
     4:15            80        1702        61        1716                         81         1750       72         1788
     4:30            92        1776        90        1753                         78         1960       91         1906
     4:45            102       1708       111        1603                         129        1874       145        1978
     5:00            163       1676       167        1641                         165        1899       205        1839
     5:15            206       1754       219        1609                         230        1739       213        1758
     5:30            321       1730       362        1610                         335        1585       347        1708
     5:45            536       1581       572        1540                         478        1571       565        1770
     6:00            678       1611       789        1598                         666        1839       713        1846
     6:15            941       1591       982        1434                         823        1853      1003        1672
     6:30           1291       1473      1414        1352                        1240        1649      1398        1657
     6:45           1450       1385      1607        1396                        1539        1412      1631        1678
     7:00           1609       1257      1709        1289                        1630        1331      1825        1344
     7:15           1775       1032      1863        1284                        1683        1098      1828        1131
     7:30           1979        945      2031        1158                        1763        1006      1909        1069
     7:45           2025        774      1942         889                        1683         855      1849         867
     8:00           1817        834      1890         848                        1611         775      1820         886
     8:15           1872        736      1861         737                        1570         664      1749         688
     8:30           1873        724      1877         775                        1545         736      1729         748
     8:45           1800        716      1881         729                        1589         627      1728         608
     9:00           1858        678      1916         730                        1556         549      1737         642
     9:15           1844        618      1899         653                        1605         635      1731         647
     9:30           1892        679      1781         743                        1636         581      1408         678
     9:45           1656        577      1544         633                        1552         505      1306         584
     10:00          1343        524      1386         611                        1668         445      1265         498
     10:15          1191        556      1286         527                        1366         306      1312         332
     10:30          1145        488      1160         490                        1284         369      1150         368
     10:45          1196        357      1225         455                        1218         328      1166         322
     11:00          1127        299      1186         390                        1162         288      1212         324
     11:15          1162        243      1118         312                        1060         239      1167         281
     11:30          1163        240      1170         236                        1152         199      1240         200
     11:45          1171        198      1142         167                        1175         163      1276         159

   Day Total            91821                 94093                                   91228                 94686
 AM Peak Hour     7:30 AM     7693      7:15 AM     7726                        7:00 AM     6759      7:00 AM     7411
 PM Peak Hour     4:30 PM     6914      3:30 PM     6905                        4:15 PM     7483      4:00 PM     7523




AM Network Peak    7:45 AM     7587                  7570     7580.0   0.0806   7:45 AM     6409                  7147
PM Network Peak    5:00 PM     6741                  6400     6570.0   0.0698   5:00 PM     6794                  7075
    DAILY                     91821                 94093    94090.0                        91228                 94686
                 Mass Pike (I-90)
 ATR Location:
                 EB and WB @ Route 16 Interchange
  City, State:   Newton, MA
    Client:      VHB/ M. Kealey
  Site Code:     10865
  PDI File #:    102377
    Dates:       Wednesday 11/17 thru Thursday 11/18/201

                             EB (Peak Periods)                                             WB (Peak Periods)
                   Wednesday 11/17/10    Thursday 11/18/10                       Wednesday 11/17/10    Thursday 11/18/10
                    AM          PM        AM          PM                          AM          PM        AM          PM
     12:00          80         710       103         757                         229         796       254         843
     12:15          59         662        92         686                         219         802       225         850
     12:30          63         720        84         721                         208         871       202         889
     12:45          61         671        52         781                         134         907       179         910
     1:00           51         626        67         719                         107         800       131         909
     1:15           34         641        62         667                          95         765        93         809
     1:30           44         667        55         706                          85         888        79         918
     1:45           20         692        34         721                          94         964        92         959
     2:00           37         713        34         660                          78         915        57         1031
     2:15           24         666        23         719                          80         1018       54         1069
     2:30           29         785        37         726                          68         1094       64         1157
     2:45           28         713        35         842                          58         1128       36         1224
     3:00           29         731        28         824                          38         1158       30         1202
     3:15           43         735        32         770                          44         1207       50         1260
     3:30           24         824        46         891                          44         1267       38         1449
     3:45           45         861        55         992                          43         1511       24         1368
     4:00           64         870        75         868                          54         1408       64         1285
     4:15           76         864        78         935                          59         1443       52         1419
     4:30           99         1037       92         989                          90         1493       55         1483
     4:45          140         1035      159         1060                         94         1469       75         1487
     5:00          181         1154      180         1118                        111         1450       99         1470
     5:15          195         1119      213         1088                        150         1420      111         1471
     5:30          266         1007      288         935                         230         1414      143         1520
     5:45          488         1038      480         911                         372         1336      242         1545
     6:00          565         1022      558         723                         396         1276      260         1386
     6:15          705         967       788         932                         553         1313      369         1243
     6:30          1020        888       1188        1035                        751         1309      527         1287
     6:45          1218        853       1366        1092                        1051        1191      726         1378
     7:00          1056        1012      1316        983                         857         1153      821         1367
     7:15          905         614       1015        893                         825         1053      876         1193
     7:30          950         568       1026        819                         1107        1015      1087        1116
     7:45          919         531       1004        734                         1219        922       1307        968
     8:00          904         472       1021        604                         1212        939       1328        870
     8:15          871         407       1097        499                         1104        791       1212        894
     8:30          902         429       920         507                         1361        728       1178        876
     8:45          846         385       991         408                         1315        734       1384        804
     9:00          861         349       652         418                         1327        744       1110        767
     9:15          843         345       611         405                         1010        788       764         785
     9:30          937         359       571         395                         857         816       781         836
     9:45          968         302       614         400                         893         703       624         718
     10:00         1035        275       984         325                         688         756       652         883
     10:15         843         267       1204        332                         744         813       640         918
     10:30         816         247       1097        303                         762         884       666         756
     10:45         799         227       848         253                         799         697       746         716
     11:00         710         186       785         217                         778         491       797         593
     11:15         612         137       711         174                         777         387       716         419
     11:30         703         152       735         156                         835         369       791         376
     11:45         728         117       801          97                         790         289       825         331

   Day Total           53548                  57097                                   72480                 72643
 AM Peak Hour    6:30 AM     4199       6:30 AM     4885                        8:15 AM     5107      8:00 AM     5102
 PM Peak Hour    4:30 PM     4345       4:30 PM     4255                        4:15 PM     5855      5:00 PM     6006




AM Network Peak 7:45 AM       3596                  4042     3820.0    0.0669   7:45 AM     4896                  5025
PM Network Peak 5:00 PM       4318                  4052     4185.0    0.0733   5:00 PM     5620                  6006
    DAILY                     53548                 57097    57100.0                        72480                 72643
                                    Transportation Data Corporation                                      Page 1
                                  Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
Mass Pike Access from              t. (781) 587-0086 f. (781) 587-0189
South Avenue (Route 30) & River Road
City, State: Weston, MA
Client: VHB/M. Kealey
                                                                                             04051Avolume
                                                                                           Site Code: 10865

    Start               17-Nov-10                  Mass Pike On-Ramp                     Hour Totals
    Time                   Wed               Morning              Afternoon    Morning                 Afternoon
             12:00                                  7                     83
             12:15                                 16                     62
             12:30                                  7                     66
             12:45                                  3                     70        33                             281
             01:00                                  4                     75
             01:15                                  3                     91
             01:30                                  5                     67
             01:45                                  4                     71        16                             304
             02:00                                  4                     89
             02:15                                  2                     87
             02:30                                  2                     93
             02:45                                  1                   121          9                             390
             03:00                                  1                   108
             03:15                                  2                   123
             03:30                                  2                   133
             03:45                                  9                   121         14                             485
             04:00                                  7                   120
             04:15                                  9                   147
             04:30                                  9                   175
             04:45                                  5                   131         30                             573
             05:00                                 11                   191
             05:15                                 15                   195
             05:30                                 17                   150
             05:45                                 13                   149         56                             685
             06:00                                 19                   127
             06:15                                 41                     75
             06:30                                 50                   103
             06:45                                 50                     65       160                             370
             07:00                                 74                     76
             07:15                                 87                     76
             07:30                                127                     55
             07:45                                112                     50       400                             257
             08:00                                107                     46
             08:15                                123                     62
             08:30                                 99                     53
             08:45                                108                     37       437                             198
             09:00                                 64                     48
             09:15                                 74                     58
             09:30                                 75                     32
             09:45                                 56                     39       269                             177
             10:00                                 51                     36
             10:15                                 65                     30
             10:30                                 53                     27
             10:45                                 52                     27       221                             120
             11:00                                 67                     12
             11:15                                 65                     14
             11:30                                 61                     11
             11:45                                 78                     18       271                              55
              Total                             1916                   3895
            Percent                            33.0%                  67.0%
                                        Transportation Data Corporation                                              Page 2
                                  Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
Mass Pike Access from              t. (781) 587-0086 f. (781) 587-0189
South Avenue (Route 30) & River Road
City, State: Weston, MA
Client: VHB/M. Kealey
                                                                                                         04051Avolume
                                                                                                       Site Code: 10865

    Start                   18-Nov-10                  Mass Pike On-Ramp                             Hour Totals
    Time                       Thu               Morning              Afternoon            Morning                 Afternoon
             12:00                                     10                     73
             12:15                                      8                     85
             12:30                                     10                     88
             12:45                                      3                     76                31                             322
             01:00                                      1                     71
             01:15                                      5                     80
             01:30                                      1                     72
             01:45                                      3                     73                10                             296
             02:00                                      2                     95
             02:15                                      4                     94
             02:30                                      1                     96
             02:45                                      3                     91                10                             376
             03:00                                      2                   110
             03:15                                      3                   117
             03:30                                      6                   110
             03:45                                      5                   126                 16                             463
             04:00                                      4                   159
             04:15                                      4                   165
             04:30                                      5                   158
             04:45                                      7                   138                 20                             620
             05:00                                      8                   166
             05:15                                     15                   173
             05:30                                     17                   147
             05:45                                     13                   137                 53                             623
             06:00                                     23                   121
             06:15                                     34                   122
             06:30                                     56                     96
             06:45                                     60                     88               173                             427
             07:00                                     72                     72
             07:15                                    101                     69
             07:30                                    109                     71
             07:45                                    130                     55               412                             267
             08:00                                    120                     62
             08:15                                     93                     46
             08:30                                    109                     57
             08:45                                    100                     61               422                             226
             09:00                                     89                     31
             09:15                                     66                     49
             09:30                                     64                     39
             09:45                                     64                     35               283                             154
             10:00                                     65                     44
             10:15                                     64                     33
             10:30                                     53                     32
             10:45                                     64                     45               246                             154
             11:00                                     61                     25
             11:15                                     58                     18
             11:30                                     79                     18
             11:45                                     54                      6               252                              67
              Total                                 1928                   3995
            Percent                                32.6%                  67.4%
              Grand Total                                       3844                7890
                 Percent                                       32.8%               67.2%

                    ADT                                         ADT 5,867                                             AADT 5,867
                                   Transportation Data Corporation                                   Page 1
                                   Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
I-95 Southbound Off-Ramp           t. (781) 587-0086 f. (781) 587-0189
to Mass Pike (Exit 25)
City, State: Weston, MA
Client: VHB/M. Kealey
                                                                                     04051BVOLUME
                                                                                      Site Code: 10865

    Start              17-Nov-10                        SB                           Hour Totals
    Time                  Wed                Morning          Afternoon    Morning                 Afternoon
             12:00                                 36               312
             12:15                                 45               384
             12:30                                 25               366
             12:45                                 39               355        145                             1417
             01:00                                 21               332
             01:15                                 29               348
             01:30                                 18               337
             01:45                                 27               307         95                             1324
             02:00                                 18               407
             02:15                                 24               428
             02:30                                 27               393
             02:45                                 28               414         97                             1642
             03:00                                 29               466
             03:15                                 32               527
             03:30                                 23               561
             03:45                                 21               545        105                             2099
             04:00                                 32               539
             04:15                                 36               599
             04:30                                 72               560
             04:45                                 54               622        194                             2320
             05:00                                 98               472
             05:15                                123               473
             05:30                                153               465
             05:45                                178               526        552                             1936
             06:00                                249               498
             06:15                                349               472
             06:30                                418               417
             06:45                                464               393       1480                             1780
             07:00                                453               304
             07:15                                494               253
             07:30                                365               241
             07:45                                389               225       1701                             1023
             08:00                                365               183
             08:15                                390               232
             08:30                                370               197
             08:45                                349               161       1474                              773
             09:00                                332               204
             09:15                                399               207
             09:30                                413               165
             09:45                                413               146       1557                              722
             10:00                                389               117
             10:15                                369               121
             10:30                                339               121
             10:45                                313                 96      1410                              455
             11:00                                300                 67
             11:15                                382                 67
             11:30                                337                 56
             11:45                                364                 54      1383                              244
              Total                            10193              15735
            Percent                            39.3%              60.7%
                                        Transportation Data Corporation                                             Page 2
                                        Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
I-95 Southbound Off-Ramp                t. (781) 587-0086 f. (781) 587-0189
to Mass Pike (Exit 25)
City, State: Weston, MA
Client: VHB/M. Kealey
                                                                                                    04051BVOLUME
                                                                                                     Site Code: 10865

    Start                   18-Nov-10                        SB                                     Hour Totals
    Time                       Thu                Morning            Afternoon            Morning                 Afternoon
             12:00                                      49                 412
             12:15                                      55                 364
             12:30                                      44                 390
             12:45                                      37                 338                185                             1504
             01:00                                      25                 355
             01:15                                      19                 353
             01:30                                      19                 363
             01:45                                      27                 396                 90                             1467
             02:00                                      18                 371
             02:15                                      14                 438
             02:30                                      30                 451
             02:45                                      18                 459                 80                             1719
             03:00                                      29                 508
             03:15                                      20                 577
             03:30                                      23                 564
             03:45                                      23                 593                 95                             2242
             04:00                                      30                 518
             04:15                                      34                 588
             04:30                                      60                 575
             04:45                                      91                 590                215                             2271
             05:00                                      90                 544
             05:15                                     117                 493
             05:30                                     181                 503
             05:45                                     212                 535                600                             2075
             06:00                                     269                 457
             06:15                                     393                 433
             06:30                                     446                 455
             06:45                                     522                 404               1630                             1749
             07:00                                     500                 336
             07:15                                     494                 296
             07:30                                     415                 271
             07:45                                     481                 261               1890                             1164
             08:00                                     457                 225
             08:15                                     420                 212
             08:30                                     430                 180
             08:45                                     410                 203               1717                              820
             09:00                                     408                 214
             09:15                                     380                 194
             09:30                                     315                 234
             09:45                                     323                 152               1426                              794
             10:00                                     367                 116
             10:15                                     377                 140
             10:30                                     337                   93
             10:45                                     354                 105               1435                              454
             11:00                                     332                   98
             11:15                                     370                   94
             11:30                                     382                   57
             11:45                                     389                   80              1473                              329
              Total                                 10836                16588
            Percent                                 39.5%                60.5%
              Grand Total                                    21029                32323
                 Percent                                     39.4%                60.6%

                    ADT                                      ADT 26,676                                             AADT 26,676
                                    Transportation Data Corporation                                  Page 1
                                   Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
I-95 Southbound On-Ramp             t. (781) 587-0086 f. (781) 587-0189
from Mass Pike (Exit 14/Weston Tolls)
City, State: Weston, MA
Client: VHB/M. Kealey
                                                                                         04051Cvolume
                                                                                       Site Code: 10865

    Start               17-Nov-10                       SB                           Hour Totals
    Time                   Wed               Morning          Afternoon    Morning                 Afternoon
             12:00                                 74               282
             12:15                                 65               280
             12:30                                 54               338
             12:45                                 60               286        253                             1186
             01:00                                 38               292
             01:15                                 35               307
             01:30                                 32               354
             01:45                                 19               350        124                             1303
             02:00                                 20               316
             02:15                                 14               363
             02:30                                 14               342
             02:45                                 25               363         73                             1384
             03:00                                 12               366
             03:15                                 16               352
             03:30                                 28               349
             03:45                                 18               360         74                             1427
             04:00                                 28               378
             04:15                                 33               345
             04:30                                 34               315
             04:45                                 60               289        155                             1327
             05:00                                 39               224
             05:15                                 86               131
             05:30                                 98               170
             05:45                                158               294        381                              819
             06:00                                163               292
             06:15                                260               314
             06:30                                325               347
             06:45                                271               298       1019                             1251
             07:00                                343               263
             07:15                                411               248
             07:30                                438               223
             07:45                                435               235       1627                              969
             08:00                                421               192
             08:15                                328               177
             08:30                                377               149
             08:45                                465               164       1591                              682
             09:00                                503               139
             09:15                                532               174
             09:30                                351               159
             09:45                                334               161       1720                              633
             10:00                                315               170
             10:15                                301               151
             10:30                                305               109
             10:45                                319               110       1240                              540
             11:00                                300                 77
             11:15                                344                 68
             11:30                                307                 71
             11:45                                306                 57      1257                              273
              Total                             9514              11794
            Percent                            44.6%              55.4%
                                        Transportation Data Corporation                                            Page 2
                                   Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
I-95 Southbound On-Ramp             t. (781) 587-0086 f. (781) 587-0189
from Mass Pike (Exit 14/Weston Tolls)
City, State: Weston, MA
Client: VHB/M. Kealey
                                                                                                       04051Cvolume
                                                                                                     Site Code: 10865

    Start                   18-Nov-10                       SB                                     Hour Totals
    Time                       Thu               Morning            Afternoon            Morning                 Afternoon
             12:00                                     48                 271
             12:15                                     50                 302
             12:30                                     45                 307
             12:45                                     33                 328                176                             1208
             01:00                                     21                 313
             01:15                                     29                 323
             01:30                                     25                 324
             01:45                                     22                 355                 97                             1315
             02:00                                     19                 319
             02:15                                      9                 373
             02:30                                     22                 394
             02:45                                     22                 364                 72                             1450
             03:00                                     20                 377
             03:15                                      8                 404
             03:30                                     24                 398
             03:45                                     17                 338                 69                             1517
             04:00                                     35                 320
             04:15                                     23                 344
             04:30                                     46                 300
             04:45                                     45                 267                149                             1231
             05:00                                     62                 234
             05:15                                     98                 206
             05:30                                    124                 218
             05:45                                    174                 253                458                              911
             06:00                                    200                 196
             06:15                                    306                 255
             06:30                                    336                 321
             06:45                                    337                 324               1179                             1096
             07:00                                    391                 346
             07:15                                    450                 366
             07:30                                    464                 260
             07:45                                    504                 186               1809                             1158
             08:00                                    387                 203
             08:15                                    369                 183
             08:30                                    460                 190
             08:45                                    456                 149               1672                              725
             09:00                                    536                 177
             09:15                                    473                 177
             09:30                                    387                 143
             09:45                                    367                 173               1763                              670
             10:00                                    333                 161
             10:15                                    331                 171
             10:30                                    322                 139
             10:45                                    285                 107               1271                              578
             11:00                                    288                 101
             11:15                                    297                   91
             11:30                                    293                   98
             11:45                                    308                   72              1186                              362
              Total                                 9901                12221
            Percent                                44.8%                55.2%
              Grand Total                                   19415                24015
                 Percent                                    44.7%                55.3%

                    ADT                                     ADT 21,715                                             AADT 21,715
                                     Transportation Data Corporation                                         Page 1
                                     Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
Fuel/Food/Facility Rest Area         t. (781) 587-0086 f. (781) 587-0189
on I-95 Southbound (near Exit 21)
City, State: Newton, MA
Client: VHB/M. Kealey
                                                                                                04051Dvolume
                                                                                               Site Code: 10865

     Start               17-Nov-10                        Rest Area                          Hour Totals
     Time                   Wed                Morning                Afternoon    Morning                 Afternoon
              12:00                                  11                       55
              12:15                                   9                       63
              12:30                                  16                       65
              12:45                                   9                       64        45                             247
              01:00                                   6                       63
              01:15                                   8                       74
              01:30                                   6                       72
              01:45                                   4                       53        24                             262
              02:00                                   8                       80
              02:15                                   9                       63
              02:30                                   5                       64
              02:45                                   3                       65        25                             272
              03:00                                   5                       46
              03:15                                   2                       58
              03:30                                   1                       67
              03:45                                  11                       56        19                             227
              04:00                                  14                       49
              04:15                                   7                       28
              04:30                                  12                       50
              04:45                                   9                       51        42                             178
              05:00                                  16                       37
              05:15                                  10                       50
              05:30                                  27                       56
              05:45                                  25                       53        78                             196
              06:00                                  28                       43
              06:15                                  43                       42
              06:30                                  45                       45
              06:45                                  44                       35       160                             165
              07:00                                  55                       31
              07:15                                  65                       33
              07:30                                  66                       32
              07:45                                  64                       24       250                             120
              08:00                                  56                       20
              08:15                                  48                       23
              08:30                                  53                       28
              08:45                                  71                       19       228                              90
              09:00                                  78                       17
              09:15                                  84                       31
              09:30                                  63                       20
              09:45                                  89                       23       314                              91
              10:00                                  72                       17
              10:15                                  42                       35
              10:30                                  60                       17
              10:45                                  79                       15       253                              84
              11:00                                  57                       15
              11:15                                  61                       17
              11:30                                  54                       15
              11:45                                  68                       16       240                              63
               Total                              1678                     1995
             Percent                             45.7%                    54.3%
                                         Transportation Data Corporation                                                 Page 2
                                         Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
Fuel/Food/Facility Rest Area             t. (781) 587-0086 f. (781) 587-0189
on I-95 Southbound (near Exit 21)
City, State: Newton, MA
Client: VHB/M. Kealey
                                                                                                            04051Dvolume
                                                                                                           Site Code: 10865

     Start                   18-Nov-10                        Rest Area                                  Hour Totals
     Time                       Thu                Morning                Afternoon            Morning                 Afternoon
              12:00                                      10                       64
              12:15                                       9                       73
              12:30                                       9                       70
              12:45                                       7                       61                35                             268
              01:00                                       5                       72
              01:15                                       8                       67
              01:30                                      10                       54
              01:45                                       5                       81                28                             274
              02:00                                       9                       62
              02:15                                       5                       78
              02:30                                       7                       58
              02:45                                       6                       72                27                             270
              03:00                                      11                       58
              03:15                                       4                       58
              03:30                                       6                       68
              03:45                                       7                       61                28                             245
              04:00                                       4                       53
              04:15                                       6                       56
              04:30                                      13                       51
              04:45                                      15                       60                38                             220
              05:00                                      13                       32
              05:15                                      29                       54
              05:30                                      28                       52
              05:45                                      38                       60               108                             198
              06:00                                      48                       60
              06:15                                      49                       61
              06:30                                      53                       62
              06:45                                      56                       47               206                             230
              07:00                                      52                       39
              07:15                                      72                       35
              07:30                                      84                       35
              07:45                                      63                       21               271                             130
              08:00                                      80                       22
              08:15                                      74                       27
              08:30                                      80                       20
              08:45                                      75                       22               309                              91
              09:00                                      74                       37
              09:15                                      65                       19
              09:30                                      48                       23
              09:45                                      45                       28               232                             107
              10:00                                      61                       22
              10:15                                      63                       10
              10:30                                      44                       18
              10:45                                      55                       18               223                              68
              11:00                                      56                       20
              11:15                                      40                       23
              11:30                                      71                       17
              11:45                                      85                       12               252                              72
               Total                                  1757                     2173
             Percent                                 44.7%                    55.3%
               Grand Total                                        3435                  4168
                  Percent                                        45.2%                 54.8%

                     ADT                                          ADT 3,802                                               AADT 3,802
                                       Transportation Data Corporation                                   Page 1
                                       Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
I-95 Southbound Off-Ramp               t. (781) 587-0086 f. (781) 587-0189
(Exit 21) to Route 16 [East]
City, State: Newton, MA
Client: VHB/M. Kealey
                                                                                             04051Evolume
                                                                                           Site Code: 10865

     Start                 17-Nov-10                        SB                           Hour Totals
     Time                     Wed                Morning          Afternoon    Morning                 Afternoon
              12:00                                     5                 64
              12:15                                     2                 77
              12:30                                     4                 76
              12:45                                     1                 72        12                             289
              01:00                                     5                 58
              01:15                                     3                 68
              01:30                                     4                 84
              01:45                                     3                 94        15                             304
              02:00                                     1                 71
              02:15                                     3                 84
              02:30                                     0                 80
              02:45                                     0                 88         4                             323
              03:00                                     3                 50
              03:15                                     0                 82
              03:30                                     1                 64
              03:45                                     3                 78         7                             274
              04:00                                     2                 64
              04:15                                     2                 74
              04:30                                     1                 71
              04:45                                    10                 76        15                             285
              05:00                                     8                 62
              05:15                                     8                 72
              05:30                                    22                 78
              05:45                                    14                 89        52                             301
              06:00                                    30               104
              06:15                                    52               110
              06:30                                    96                 73
              06:45                                    92                 80       270                             367
              07:00                                    92                 52
              07:15                                    44                 42
              07:30                                    86                 30
              07:45                                    91                 42       313                             166
              08:00                                    84                 36
              08:15                                    73                 28
              08:30                                    86                 22
              08:45                                    92                 32       335                             118
              09:00                                    88                 34
              09:15                                    94                 28
              09:30                                    85                 26
              09:45                                    84                 18       351                             106
              10:00                                    82                 13
              10:15                                    80                 14
              10:30                                    86                 14
              10:45                                    71                 14       319                              55
              11:00                                    78                 20
              11:15                                    76                  8
              11:30                                    55                 11
              11:45                                    72                  3       281                              42
               Total                                1974               2630
             Percent                               42.9%              57.1%
                                         Transportation Data Corporation                                             Page 2
                                         Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
I-95 Southbound Off-Ramp                 t. (781) 587-0086 f. (781) 587-0189
(Exit 21) to Route 16 [East]
City, State: Newton, MA
Client: VHB/M. Kealey
                                                                                                         04051Evolume
                                                                                                       Site Code: 10865

     Start                   18-Nov-10                        SB                                     Hour Totals
     Time                       Thu                Morning            Afternoon            Morning                 Afternoon
              12:00                                       8                   73
              12:15                                       4                   60
              12:30                                       2                   79
              12:45                                       4                   75                18                             287
              01:00                                      11                   60
              01:15                                       4                   72
              01:30                                       2                   72
              01:45                                       5                   65                22                             269
              02:00                                       3                   74
              02:15                                       6                   76
              02:30                                       1                   79
              02:45                                       1                   89                11                             318
              03:00                                       4                   68
              03:15                                       1                   91
              03:30                                       3                   94
              03:45                                       0                   86                 8                             339
              04:00                                       2                   75
              04:15                                       4                   62
              04:30                                      10                   82
              04:45                                      11                   76                27                             295
              05:00                                       5                   69
              05:15                                      10                   78
              05:30                                      21                 109
              05:45                                      36                   70                72                             326
              06:00                                      32                   82
              06:15                                      78                   76
              06:30                                      96                   78
              06:45                                     110                   90               316                             326
              07:00                                      92                   48
              07:15                                      89                   68
              07:30                                      50                   50
              07:45                                      86                   22               317                             188
              08:00                                      20                   32
              08:15                                      50                   26
              08:30                                      89                   25
              08:45                                      98                   17               257                             100
              09:00                                      78                   38
              09:15                                     108                   26
              09:30                                     100                   18
              09:45                                      86                   19               372                             101
              10:00                                      79                   13
              10:15                                      61                   14
              10:30                                      80                   12
              10:45                                      65                   15               285                              54
              11:00                                      73                   18
              11:15                                      62                   16
              11:30                                      66                    6
              11:45                                      66                   10               267                              50
               Total                                  1972                 2653
             Percent                                 42.6%                57.4%
               Grand Total                                     3946                 5283
                  Percent                                     42.8%                57.2%

                     ADT                                       ADT 4,614                                              AADT 4,614
                                  Transportation Data Corporation                                   Page 1
                                  Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
I-95 Southbound On-Ramp           t. (781) 587-0086 f. (781) 587-0189
from Quinobequin Road
City, State: Newton, MA
Client: VHB/M. Kealey
                                                                                        04051Fvolume
                                                                                      Site Code: 10865

    Start             17-Nov-10                        SB                           Hour Totals
    Time                 Wed                Morning          Afternoon    Morning                 Afternoon
             12:00                                 3                 27
             12:15                                 2                 23
             12:30                                 2                 32
             12:45                                 0                 36         7                             118
             01:00                                 0                 39
             01:15                                 1                 58
             01:30                                 0                 64
             01:45                                 0                 44         1                             205
             02:00                                 2                 49
             02:15                                 0                 42
             02:30                                 0                 38
             02:45                                 1                 38         3                             167
             03:00                                 1                 48
             03:15                                 4                 39
             03:30                                 0                 45
             03:45                                 0                 29         5                             161
             04:00                                 1                 49
             04:15                                 1                 42
             04:30                                 1                 45
             04:45                                 0                 40         3                             176
             05:00                                 5                 40
             05:15                                 4                 60
             05:30                                 6                 35
             05:45                                 4                 31        19                             166
             06:00                                 7                 32
             06:15                                 6                 38
             06:30                                 8                 26
             06:45                                16                 21        37                             117
             07:00                                17                 19
             07:15                                20                 15
             07:30                                24                 17
             07:45                                38                 13        99                              64
             08:00                                35                 32
             08:15                                29                  9
             08:30                                41                 13
             08:45                                41                 17       146                              71
             09:00                                25                 14
             09:15                                36                 15
             09:30                                40                 12
             09:45                                26                 12       127                              53
             10:00                                29                  2
             10:15                                32                  5
             10:30                                36                  8
             10:45                                36                  8       133                              23
             11:00                                40                  7
             11:15                                28                 14
             11:30                                40                  9
             11:45                                34                  3       142                              33
              Total                              722              1354
            Percent                           34.8%              65.2%
                                        Transportation Data Corporation                                             Page 2
                                        Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
I-95 Southbound On-Ramp                 t. (781) 587-0086 f. (781) 587-0189
from Quinobequin Road
City, State: Newton, MA
Client: VHB/M. Kealey
                                                                                                        04051Fvolume
                                                                                                      Site Code: 10865

    Start                   18-Nov-10                        SB                                     Hour Totals
    Time                       Thu                Morning            Afternoon            Morning                 Afternoon
             12:00                                       0                   34
             12:15                                       4                   29
             12:30                                       1                   43
             12:45                                       1                   46                 6                             152
             01:00                                       1                   36
             01:15                                       3                   34
             01:30                                       0                   39
             01:45                                       0                   27                 4                             136
             02:00                                       0                   44
             02:15                                       4                   42
             02:30                                       0                   46
             02:45                                       0                   38                 4                             170
             03:00                                       2                   46
             03:15                                       3                   43
             03:30                                       0                   38
             03:45                                       1                   50                 6                             177
             04:00                                       0                   36
             04:15                                       3                   28
             04:30                                       1                   62
             04:45                                       0                   40                 4                             166
             05:00                                       4                   50
             05:15                                       4                   41
             05:30                                       3                   38
             05:45                                      10                   35                21                             164
             06:00                                       3                   38
             06:15                                       7                   38
             06:30                                       7                   23
             06:45                                       8                   26                25                             125
             07:00                                      24                   24
             07:15                                      25                   19
             07:30                                      32                   23
             07:45                                      35                   21               116                              87
             08:00                                      38                   21
             08:15                                      35                   18
             08:30                                      31                   12
             08:45                                      27                   18               131                              69
             09:00                                      37                   18
             09:15                                      33                   13
             09:30                                      26                   13
             09:45                                      32                    7               128                              51
             10:00                                      33                    9
             10:15                                      30                   13
             10:30                                      43                    7
             10:45                                      36                    7               142                              36
             11:00                                      39                   13
             11:15                                      38                   18
             11:30                                      30                   13
             11:45                                      44                    1               151                              45
              Total                                    738                1378
            Percent                                 34.9%                65.1%
              Grand Total                                     1460                 2732
                 Percent                                     34.8%                65.2%

                    ADT                                       ADT 2,096                                              AADT 2,096
                                          Transportation Data Corporation                                                    Page 1
                                 Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
Quinobequin Road just south of    t. (781) 587-0086 f. (781) 587-0189
I-95 SB On-Ramp (from Washington Street)
City, State: Newton, MA
Client: VHB/M. Kealey
                                                                                                                    04051Gvolume
                                                                                                                   Site Code: 10865

 Start       17-Nov-10             NB               Hour Totals                 SB               Hour Totals         Combined Totals
 Time           Wed      Morning     Afternoon   Morning  Afternoon   Morning     Afternoon   Morning  Afternoon    Morning Afternoon
    12:00                     0            5                               2           13
    12:15                     0           11                               0           17
    12:30                     1           11                               1           14
    12:45                     0            4         1        31           0           18         3        62           4          93
    01:00                     0           11                               0           19
    01:15                     0           13                               0           21
    01:30                     0           15                               0           13
    01:45                     0           14         0        53           1           15         1        68           1         121
    02:00                     0           12                               0           20
    02:15                     0           10                               0           21
    02:30                     0           13                               0           26
    02:45                     0           17         0        52           0           28         0        95           0         147
    03:00                     0           13                               0           35
    03:15                     0           17                               0           41
    03:30                     0           13                               1           42
    03:45                     0           16         0        59           0           48         1       166           1         225
    04:00                     0           20                               0           45
    04:15                     0           12                               1           40
    04:30                     0           16                               2           49
    04:45                     0           13         0        61           1           37         4       171           4         232
    05:00                     1           14                               1           29
    05:15                     2           11                               0           33
    05:30                     2            9                               2           26
    05:45                     1           18         6        52           1           38         4       126          10         178
    06:00                     2            8                               3           24
    06:15                     3           12                               4           21
    06:30                     1            5                               8           14
    06:45                     9           14        15        39          11           11        26        70          41         109
    07:00                    10            9                              17            9
    07:15                    19            3                              24           12
    07:30                    18            7                              21            8
    07:45                    37            6        84        25          30            7        92        36         176          61
    08:00                    33            4                              32            4
    08:15                    41            4                              18            6
    08:30                    40            8                              26            7
    08:45                    30            4       144        20          20            5        96        22         240          42
    09:00                    23            1                              22            5
    09:15                    19            4                              14            5
    09:30                    14            0                              12            3
    09:45                    13            3        69         8          15            4        63        17         132          25
    10:00                    19            1                              11            6
    10:15                    11            2                              16            2
    10:30                     9            2                              22            5
    10:45                    13            5        52        10          12            3        61        16         113          26
    11:00                    13            0                              14            5
    11:15                     9            2                               9            2
    11:30                     7            1                              20            1
    11:45                     9            1        38         4          16            1        59         9           97          13
     Total                 409          414                             410          858                              819        1272
  Percent                49.7%        50.3%                           32.3%        67.7%                            39.2%       60.8%
                                          Transportation Data Corporation                                                    Page 2
                                 Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
Quinobequin Road just south of    t. (781) 587-0086 f. (781) 587-0189
I-95 SB On-Ramp (from Washington Street)
City, State: Newton, MA
Client: VHB/M. Kealey
                                                                                                                     04051Gvolume
                                                                                                                    Site Code: 10865

 Start        18-Nov-10          NB                  Hour Totals              SB                  Hour Totals         Combined Totals
 Time            Thu      Morning   Afternoon    Morning   Afternoon   Morning   Afternoon    Morning   Afternoon    Morning Afternoon
    12:00                      0          9                                 2         16
    12:15                      2         12                                 0         21
    12:30                      0         16                                 0         12
    12:45                      1         13          3          50          1         20          3          69          6         119
    01:00                      0         12                                 0         21
    01:15                      0         14                                 0         13
    01:30                      0         14                                 0         10
    01:45                      1         14          1          54          0         19          0          63          1         117
    02:00                      0         14                                 1         13
    02:15                      0         11                                 0         25
    02:30                      0         15                                 0         16
    02:45                      0         19          0          59          0         31          1          85          1         144
    03:00                      0         19                                 0         51
    03:15                      0         12                                 0         48
    03:30                      0         16                                 0         52
    03:45                      1         10          1          57          0         43          0        194           1         251
    04:00                      0         13                                 0         44
    04:15                      1         10                                 1         43
    04:30                      0         16                                 3         59
    04:45                      0         16          1          55          0         25          4        171           5         226
    05:00                      1         13                                 1         33
    05:15                      2         20                                 0         23
    05:30                      0         14                                 1         40
    05:45                      2         19          5          66          1         41          3        137           8         203
    06:00                      2         15                                 2         25
    06:15                      2         11                                 6         22
    06:30                      5         10                                 3         11
    06:45                     10          9         19          45         13         12         24          70         43         115
    07:00                     14          6                                23         12
    07:15                     21          5                                18         10
    07:30                     19          7                                23         11
    07:45                     35          5         89          23         29          6         93          39        182          62
    08:00                     28          2                                34          6
    08:15                     24          6                                24          6
    08:30                     36          3                                19         10
    08:45                     31          1       119           12         16          3         93          25        212          37
    09:00                     24          4                                21          8
    09:15                     21          1                                10          6
    09:30                     17          1                                13          3
    09:45                     15          3         77           9         12          3         56          20        133          29
    10:00                     15          1                                13          8
    10:15                      7          2                                10          4
    10:30                      8          2                                15          4
    10:45                      7          3         37           8         21          7         59          23         96          31
    11:00                     10          0                                 8          3
    11:15                     19          3                                 6          5
    11:30                     21          0                                19          2
    11:45                     21          2         71           5         12          2         45          12        116           17
     Total                  423        443                               381        908                                804        1351
  Percent                 48.8%     51.2%                              29.6%     70.4%                               37.3%       62.7%
  Grand Total                    832         857                              791        1766                             1623        2623
      Percent                  49.3%       50.7%                            30.9%       69.1%                            38.2%      61.8%

        ADT                   ADT 2,123                 AADT 2,123
                                     Transportation Data Corporation                                   Page 1
                                     Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
Recreation Road NB Off-Ramp          t. (781) 587-0086 f. (781) 587-0189
from Exit 23-24-25 (Frontage Road)
City, State: Weston, MA
Client: VHB/M. Kealey
                                                                                           04051Hvolume
                                                                                         Site Code: 10865

     Start               17-Nov-10                        NB                           Hour Totals
     Time                   Wed                Morning          Afternoon    Morning                 Afternoon
              12:00                                   3                 10
              12:15                                   1                  6
              12:30                                   0                 12
              12:45                                   0                 12         4                             40
              01:00                                   0                 15
              01:15                                   0                 14
              01:30                                   0                  5
              01:45                                   0                  9         0                             43
              02:00                                   0                  9
              02:15                                   1                  9
              02:30                                   0                  5
              02:45                                   0                  6         1                             29
              03:00                                   1                  6
              03:15                                   0                 14
              03:30                                   0                 13
              03:45                                   0                 10         1                             43
              04:00                                   0                 15
              04:15                                   0                 17
              04:30                                   0                 22
              04:45                                   0                 15         0                             69
              05:00                                   0                  9
              05:15                                   3                 12
              05:30                                   2                 17
              05:45                                   9                 10        14                             48
              06:00                                   3                 14
              06:15                                   4                  4
              06:30                                  15                 13
              06:45                                  19                  7        41                             38
              07:00                                  19                  4
              07:15                                  18                  5
              07:30                                  15                  1
              07:45                                  17                  5        69                             15
              08:00                                  16                  2
              08:15                                  28                  1
              08:30                                  14                  3
              08:45                                  20                  4        78                             10
              09:00                                  14                  6
              09:15                                  13                  6
              09:30                                   5                  0
              09:45                                  10                  4        42                             16
              10:00                                   4                  9
              10:15                                   4                  0
              10:30                                  11                  1
              10:45                                   4                  0        23                             10
              11:00                                  10                  1
              11:15                                   6                  2
              11:30                                   6                  2
              11:45                                   5                  1        27                              6
               Total                                300               367
             Percent                             45.0%              55.0%
                                         Transportation Data Corporation                                              Page 2
                                         Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
Recreation Road NB Off-Ramp              t. (781) 587-0086 f. (781) 587-0189
from Exit 23-24-25 (Frontage Road)
City, State: Weston, MA
Client: VHB/M. Kealey
                                                                                                          04051Hvolume
                                                                                                        Site Code: 10865

     Start                   18-Nov-10                        NB                                      Hour Totals
     Time                       Thu                Morning             Afternoon            Morning                 Afternoon
              12:00                                       4                     4
              12:15                                       0                     8
              12:30                                       0                     4
              12:45                                       0                     7                 4                             23
              01:00                                       0                    10
              01:15                                       1                     8
              01:30                                       0                    11
              01:45                                       0                     8                 1                             37
              02:00                                       0                    10
              02:15                                       0                     3
              02:30                                       0                    10
              02:45                                       0                     8                 0                             31
              03:00                                       1                     5
              03:15                                       0                    11
              03:30                                       1                    12
              03:45                                       0                    11                 2                             39
              04:00                                       0                     6
              04:15                                       0                     7
              04:30                                       0                    21
              04:45                                       1                    22                 1                             56
              05:00                                       2                    17
              05:15                                       3                    21
              05:30                                       4                    19
              05:45                                       3                    16                12                             73
              06:00                                       8                    15
              06:15                                       7                    10
              06:30                                      16                     8
              06:45                                      12                     7                43                             40
              07:00                                      18                     7
              07:15                                      15                     7
              07:30                                      16                     1
              07:45                                      19                     6                68                             21
              08:00                                      18                     1
              08:15                                      19                     5
              08:30                                      21                     3
              08:45                                      21                     6                79                             15
              09:00                                      14                     1
              09:15                                       9                     3
              09:30                                       8                     3
              09:45                                       5                     2                36                              9
              10:00                                       6                     2
              10:15                                      11                     1
              10:30                                       6                     2
              10:45                                      11                     1                34                              6
              11:00                                       6                     0
              11:15                                       6                     2
              11:30                                       5                     1
              11:45                                       4                     0                21                              3
               Total                                    301                  353
             Percent                                 46.0%                 54.0%
               Grand Total                                      601                   720
                  Percent                                     45.5%                 54.5%

                     ADT                                           ADT 660                                               AADT 660
                                       Transportation Data Corporation                                   Page 1
                                       Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
I-95 Southbound Off-Ramp               t. (781) 587-0086 f. (781) 587-0189
(Exit 22) to Route 16 [west]
City, State: Newton, MA
Client: VHB/M. Kealey
                                                                                              04051Jvolume
                                                                                           Site Code: 10865

     Start                 17-Nov-10                        SB                           Hour Totals
     Time                     Wed                Morning          Afternoon    Morning                 Afternoon
              12:00                                     7                 69
              12:15                                     8                 83
              12:30                                     6                 95
              12:45                                     8                 94        29                             341
              01:00                                     7                 78
              01:15                                     2                 93
              01:30                                     4               107
              01:45                                     1               111         14                             389
              02:00                                     0               101
              02:15                                     0                 91
              02:30                                     2               104
              02:45                                     1               107          3                             403
              03:00                                     0               111
              03:15                                     1               125
              03:30                                     1               114
              03:45                                     3               141          5                             491
              04:00                                     2               111
              04:15                                     0               166
              04:30                                     4               153
              04:45                                     4               150         10                             580
              05:00                                     9               125
              05:15                                    11               114
              05:30                                    13               180
              05:45                                    35               149         68                             568
              06:00                                    40               171
              06:15                                    61               145
              06:30                                    96               110
              06:45                                   123               102        320                             528
              07:00                                   120                 82
              07:15                                   136                 81
              07:30                                   131                 64
              07:45                                   145                 55       532                             282
              08:00                                   131                 42
              08:15                                   119                 49
              08:30                                   113                 46
              08:45                                   153                 49       516                             186
              09:00                                   132                 44
              09:15                                   147                 45
              09:30                                    95                 40
              09:45                                   138                 29       512                             158
              10:00                                    91                 27
              10:15                                    93                 23
              10:30                                   103                 25
              10:45                                   114                 30       401                             105
              11:00                                    85                 14
              11:15                                    79                  9
              11:30                                   117                 11
              11:45                                   116                  9       397                              43
               Total                                2807               4074
             Percent                               40.8%              59.2%
                                         Transportation Data Corporation                                             Page 2
                                         Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
I-95 Southbound Off-Ramp                 t. (781) 587-0086 f. (781) 587-0189
(Exit 22) to Route 16 [west]
City, State: Newton, MA
Client: VHB/M. Kealey
                                                                                                          04051Jvolume
                                                                                                       Site Code: 10865

     Start                   18-Nov-10                        SB                                     Hour Totals
     Time                       Thu                Morning            Afternoon            Morning                 Afternoon
              12:00                                       6                   86
              12:15                                       4                   82
              12:30                                       2                   85
              12:45                                       6                 114                 18                             367
              01:00                                       2                   74
              01:15                                       1                 104
              01:30                                       1                   90
              01:45                                       1                 125                  5                             393
              02:00                                       5                   95
              02:15                                       0                 116
              02:30                                       1                 120
              02:45                                       2                 104                  8                             435
              03:00                                       1                 108
              03:15                                       0                 123
              03:30                                       0                 137
              03:45                                       2                 171                  3                             539
              04:00                                       6                 130
              04:15                                       2                 133
              04:30                                       7                 151
              04:45                                       6                 138                 21                             552
              05:00                                      10                 145
              05:15                                       8                 138
              05:30                                      20                 148
              05:45                                      38                 147                 76                             578
              06:00                                      49                 152
              06:15                                      74                 164
              06:30                                     120                 151
              06:45                                     139                 114                382                             581
              07:00                                     116                   78
              07:15                                     142                   80
              07:30                                     143                   58
              07:45                                     154                   60               555                             276
              08:00                                     142                   54
              08:15                                     131                   51
              08:30                                     114                   36
              08:45                                     135                   43               522                             184
              09:00                                     150                   40
              09:15                                     126                   48
              09:30                                     125                   43
              09:45                                     123                   36               524                             167
              10:00                                      91                   15
              10:15                                      92                   26
              10:30                                      86                   24
              10:45                                     100                   27               369                              92
              11:00                                      95                   24
              11:15                                     110                    8
              11:30                                     102                   13
              11:45                                      96                    7               403                              52
               Total                                  2886                 4216
             Percent                                 40.6%                59.4%
               Grand Total                                     5693                 8290
                  Percent                                     40.7%                59.3%

                     ADT                                       ADT 6,992                                              AADT 6,992
                                       Transportation Data Corporation                                   Page 1
                                       Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
I-95 Southbound Off-Ramp               t. (781) 587-0086 f. (781) 587-0189
(Exit 22) to Grove Street [Only]
City, State: Newton, MA
Client: VHB/M. Kealey
                                                                                             04051Kvolume
                                                                                           Site Code: 10865

     Start                 17-Nov-10                        SB                           Hour Totals
     Time                     Wed                Morning          Afternoon    Morning                 Afternoon
              12:00                                     3                 18
              12:15                                     4                 20
              12:30                                     1                 18
              12:45                                     1                 24         9                              80
              01:00                                     0                 20
              01:15                                     1                 24
              01:30                                     0                 22
              01:45                                     0                 18         1                              84
              02:00                                     0                 25
              02:15                                     3                 15
              02:30                                     0                 14
              02:45                                     0                 34         3                              88
              03:00                                     1                 22
              03:15                                     2                 28
              03:30                                     1                 28
              03:45                                     1                 21         5                              99
              04:00                                     0                 21
              04:15                                     0                 30
              04:30                                     2                 32
              04:45                                     5                 25         7                             108
              05:00                                     6                 29
              05:15                                     3                 31
              05:30                                     5                 35
              05:45                                    19                 42        33                             137
              06:00                                    22                 38
              06:15                                    29                 26
              06:30                                    51                 26
              06:45                                    44                 22       146                             112
              07:00                                    56                 13
              07:15                                    62                 18
              07:30                                    61                 14
              07:45                                    77                 17       256                              62
              08:00                                    78                 13
              08:15                                    52                 16
              08:30                                    64                 11
              08:45                                    64                 14       258                              54
              09:00                                    55                 13
              09:15                                    67                 13
              09:30                                    36                 16
              09:45                                    55                 11       213                              53
              10:00                                    35                 10
              10:15                                    25                  7
              10:30                                    21                  5
              10:45                                    18                  8        99                              30
              11:00                                    30                 10
              11:15                                    20                  3
              11:30                                    24                  1
              11:45                                    25                  8        99                              22
               Total                                1129                929
             Percent                               54.9%              45.1%
                                         Transportation Data Corporation                                             Page 2
                                         Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
I-95 Southbound Off-Ramp                 t. (781) 587-0086 f. (781) 587-0189
(Exit 22) to Grove Street [Only]
City, State: Newton, MA
Client: VHB/M. Kealey
                                                                                                         04051Kvolume
                                                                                                       Site Code: 10865

     Start                   18-Nov-10                        SB                                     Hour Totals
     Time                       Thu                Morning            Afternoon            Morning                 Afternoon
              12:00                                       2                   28
              12:15                                       1                   18
              12:30                                       1                   19
              12:45                                       2                   14                 6                              79
              01:00                                       0                   21
              01:15                                       2                   13
              01:30                                       2                   16
              01:45                                       1                   23                 5                              73
              02:00                                       0                   14
              02:15                                       0                   20
              02:30                                       1                   24
              02:45                                       1                   20                 2                              78
              03:00                                       0                   25
              03:15                                       2                   32
              03:30                                       0                   28
              03:45                                       1                   21                 3                             106
              04:00                                       0                   15
              04:15                                       0                   22
              04:30                                       2                   29
              04:45                                       6                   30                 8                              96
              05:00                                       3                   34
              05:15                                       4                   29
              05:30                                       6                   32
              05:45                                      15                   22                28                             117
              06:00                                      29                   13
              06:15                                      18                   45
              06:30                                      54                   30
              06:45                                      62                   21               163                             109
              07:00                                      57                   16
              07:15                                      63                   29
              07:30                                      75                   19
              07:45                                      87                   22               282                              86
              08:00                                      90                   15
              08:15                                      81                   11
              08:30                                      65                   14
              08:45                                      72                   16               308                              56
              09:00                                      52                    9
              09:15                                      46                    7
              09:30                                      29                    7
              09:45                                      35                   16               162                              39
              10:00                                      28                   10
              10:15                                      29                    8
              10:30                                      36                   13
              10:45                                      23                    7               116                              38
              11:00                                      31                   11
              11:15                                      20                    5
              11:30                                      25                    2
              11:45                                      24                    8               100                              26
               Total                                  1183                  903
             Percent                                 56.7%                43.3%
               Grand Total                                     2312                 1832
                  Percent                                     55.8%                44.2%

                     ADT                                       ADT 2,072                                              AADT 2,072
Grove Street
south of MBTA Driveway
City, State: Newton, MA
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                              112738 A volume
                                                                                                                    Site Code: 10865

                                                                                                                    15-Dec-
 Start                    SB                               NB                             Combined
                                                                                                                       11
 Time        A.M.                   P.M.           A.M.              P.M.          A.M.               P.M.            Thu
   12:00         8                    95             10              104            18                199
   12:15         3                    91              7                75           10                166
   12:30         7                    74              2                72            9                146
   12:45         7        25          86   346        2    21          99   350      9       46       185    696
   01:00         6                    78              1                88            7                166
   01:15         5                    98              1                88            6                186
   01:30         3                    89              6                80            9                169
   01:45         4        18          74   339        6    14          82   338     10       32       156    677
   02:00         3                    82              2                92            5                174
   02:15         2                  122               2              112             4                234
   02:30         4                  112               2                92            6                204
   02:45         1        10          92   408        1     7        106    402      2       17       198    810
   03:00         5                  135               0                76            5                211
   03:15         0                  149               3              116             3                265
   03:30         1                  143               3                92            4                235
   03:45         3         9        148    575        6    12        106    390      9       21       254    965
   04:00         5                  138               3                97            8                235
   04:15         6                  155               2                98            8                253
   04:30         6                  178              12              103            18                281
   04:45         4        21        197    668       10    27        121    419     14       48       318    1087
   05:00        10                  245              17              122            27                367
   05:15         3                  236              15              137            18                373
   05:30         7                  179              49              117            56                296
   05:45        18        38        178    838       66   147        110    486     84      185       288    1324
   06:00        24                  191              81              128           105                319
   06:15        30                  134              92              100           122                234
   06:30        42                  144            124                 88          166                232
   06:45        65        161       108    577     173    470          71   387    238      631       179    964
   07:00        67                    85           192                 61          259                146
   07:15        98                  103            236                 59          334                162
   07:30      101                     95           240                 50          341                145
   07:45      100         366         75   358     275    943          39   209    375    1309        114    567
   08:00      102                     56           290                 52          392                108
   08:15      104                     51           272                 43          376                 94
   08:30      122                     62           270                 62          392                124
   08:45        73        401         52   221     275    1107         52   209    348    1508        104    430
   09:00        85                    67           244                 56          329                123
   09:15        79                    55           162                 74          241                129
   09:30        76                    43           143                 43          219                 86
   09:45        74        314         24   189     108    657          47   220    182      971        71    409
   10:00        76                    40           122                 40          198                 80
   10:15        55                    34             87                40          142                 74
   10:30        61                    28             87                18          148                 46
   10:45        60        252         27   129       92   388          24   122    152      640        51    251
   11:00        64                    28           106                 25          170                 53
   11:15        65                    28             90                16          155                 44
   11:30        85                    14             84                26          169                 40
   11:45        77        291         38   108       78   358          20   87     155      649        58    195
   Total     1906                  4756           4151              3619          6057               8375
 Percent    31.5%                 56.8%          68.5%             43.2%

Day Total                  6662                             7770                             14432


   Peak      07:45                04:45          07:45             04:45          07:45              04:45
    Vol.       428                  857          1107                497          1535               1354
  P.H.F.     0.877                0.874          0.954             0.907          0.979              0.908




Page 1
Quinobequin Road at                                            PRECISION
I-95/Route 128 SB Onramp                                       D A T A
                                                               INDUSTRIES, LLC
City, State: Newton, MA
                                                            P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                 Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234   112738 C Volume (revised)
                                                           Email: datarequests@pdillc.com               Site Code: 10865

                      I-95 SB
 Start                                                                                                      Fri
                      Onramp
                                                                                                          16-Dec-
 Time        A.M.                  P.M.
                                                                                                            11
  12:00         4                    44
  12:15         3                    46
  12:30         2                    39
  12:45         1          10        31   160
  01:00         0                    50
  01:15         0                    38
  01:30         1                    31
  01:45         1           2        29   148
  02:00         0                    51
  02:15         0                    54
  02:30         1                    60
  02:45         2           3        38   203
  03:00         0                    44
  03:15         0                    47
  03:30         3                    48
  03:45         1           4        49   188
  04:00         2                    38
  04:15         1                    42
  04:30         0                    40
  04:45         4           7        38   158
  05:00         4                    34
  05:15         1                    38
  05:30         2                    37
  05:45         8          15        31   140
  06:00         5                    33
  06:15         5                    25
  06:30         7                    26
  06:45        18          35        21   105
  07:00        18                    18
  07:15        30                    22
  07:30        27                    11
  07:45        26      101           16    67
  08:00        36                    22
  08:15        24                    10
  08:30        34                     9
  08:45        30      124           10    51
  09:00        30                    13
  09:15        30                     7
  09:30        26                     3
  09:45        32      118           12    35
  10:00        25                     8
  10:15        39                     9
  10:30        38                     7
  10:45        38      140            8    32
  11:00        37                    12
  11:15        28                     5
  11:30        37                    21
  11:45        44      146           10    48
   Total      705                 1335
 Percent                        100.0%          0.0%                     0.0%

Day Total                  2040


    Peak    10:15                 02:00
     Vol.     152                   203
   P.H.F.   0.974                 0.846




                                                                                                                    Page 1
Quinobequin Road at                                                PRECISION
I-95/Route 128 SB Onramp                                           D A T A
                                                                   INDUSTRIES, LLC
City, State: Newton, MA
                                                                P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                     Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234                                  112738 B Volume (revised)
                                                               Email: datarequests@pdillc.com                                              Site Code: 10865

                                                                                                                                             16-Dec-
 Start                     SB                                    NB                                             Combined
                                                                                                                                               11
 Time        A.M.                    P.M.           A.M.                       P.M.                      A.M.               P.M.               Fri
  12:00          0                     26              0                       12                          0                 38
  12:15          1                     12              1                       12                          2                 24
  12:30          1                     15              2                        8                          3                 23
  12:45          2          4          16    69        1           4           18              50          3        8        34     119
  01:00          2                     19              0                       13                          2                 32
  01:15          0                     20              0                       12                          0                 32
  01:30          1                     18              0                       11                          1                 29
  01:45          0          3          21   78         2           2           16              52          2        5        37     130
  02:00          0                     12              0                       19                          0                 31
  02:15          0                     17              1                       17                          1                 34
  02:30          0                     26              0                       16                          0                 42
  02:45          0          0          37    92        0           1           14              66          0        1        51     158
  03:00          0                     32              0                       12                          0                 44
  03:15          0                     36              0                       19                          0                 55
  03:30          0                     35              0                       16                          0                 51
  03:45          1          1          33   136        1           1           16              63          2        2        49     199
  04:00          1                     34              0                       12                          1                 46
  04:15          0                     42              0                        8                          0                 50
  04:30          1                     28              0                       10                          1                 38
  04:45          0          2          36   140        1           1           16              46          1        3        52     186
  05:00          0                     47              2                       12                          2                 59
  05:15          0                     45              1                       18                          1                 63
  05:30          1                     36              1                       11                          2                 47
  05:45          2          3          16   144        2           6           16              57          4        9        32     201
  06:00          2                     25              5                       13                          7                 38
  06:15          4                     21              1                       13                          5                 34
  06:30          9                     19              4                       12                         13                 31
  06:45         10         25          12    77       14          24           14              52         24       49        26     129
  07:00         12                     19             14                       11                         26                 30
  07:15         20                      7              8                        8                         28                 15
  07:30         24                     15             19                        6                         43                 21
  07:45         29         85          10    51       27          68            7              32         56     153         17      83
  08:00         21                     12             30                        5                         51                 17
  08:15         23                      8             35                        6                         58                 14
  08:30         25                     13             30                        8                         55                 21
  08:45         16         85           5    38       32        127             3              22         48     212          8      60
  09:00         20                      6             24                        2                         44                  8
  09:15         16                      8             13                        3                         29                 11
  09:30         22                      6             12                        1                         34                  7
  09:45         10         68           7    27       10          59            4              10         20     127         11      37
  10:00         13                      4             12                        0                         25                  4
  10:15         12                      3             20                        2                         32                  5
  10:30         16                      5             13                        6                         29                 11
  10:45         11         52           4    16       13          58            2              10         24     110          6      26
  11:00         16                      4             16                        3                         32                  7
  11:15         16                      3              6                        2                         22                  5
  11:30         16                      4             11                        2                         27                  6
  11:45         16         64           1    12       16          49            2                   9     32     113          3      21
   Total      392                    880            400                      469                         792               1349
 Percent    49.5%                  65.2%          50.5%                    34.8%

Day Total                   1272                                    869                                             2141


    Peak    07:45                  04:45          08:00                     01:45                       07:45              04:45
     Vol.      98                    164            127                        68                         220                221
   P.H.F.   0.845                  0.872          0.907                     0.895                       0.948              0.877




                                                                                                                                                       Page 1
                                                                                               PRECISION
                                                                                               D A T A
N/S: Ashville Road/ Quinobequin Road                                                           INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                File Name              : 91860 EEE
                                                                                          P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Grove Street                                                                    Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                         Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                              Site Code              : 10865.00
City/State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                        Start Date             : 5/7/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                        Page No                :1


                                                                                   Groups Printed- Cars - Heavy Vehicles
                                                                                                             Quinobequin Road (Rt 128 SB
                                      Ashville Road                              Grove Street                                                              Grove Street
                                                                                                                        Ramp)
                                       From North                                 From East                                                                From West
                                                                                                                      From South
             Start Time       Right         Thru        Left             Right         Thru         Left       Right       Thru        Left        Right            Thru           Left        Int. Total
           04:00 PM              0             2             2              0           54             74            35           0         4        10              42               0            223
           04:15 PM              0             0             1              2           46             83            42           0         2         5              47               0            228
           04:30 PM              0             1             1              3           49             84            47           0         3         4              39               0            231
           04:45 PM              0             2             0              2           56             87            55           0         2         6              45               0            255
               Total             0             5             4              7          205            328           179           0        11        25             173               0            937

           05:00 PM              0             0             0              1           64            112            54           0         4         9              70               0            314
           05:15 PM              0             0             0              2           63            124            38           1         8        13              45               0            294
           05:30 PM              1             0             0              0           72            101            56           1         2         8              52               1            294
           05:45 PM              0             0             3              5           86            115            62           4         2         7              54               0            338
               Total             1             0             3              8          285            452           210           6        16        37             221               1           1240

      Grand Total                1             5         7                15           490           780           389             6      27        62          394                  1            2177
        Apprch %               7.7          38.5      53.8                1.2          38.1          60.7          92.2          1.4      6.4      13.6         86.2               0.2
          Total %                0           0.2       0.3                0.7          22.5          35.8          17.9          0.3      1.2       2.8         18.1                 0
            Cars                 1             5         7                15           470           777           381             6      27        62          380                  1            2132
          % Cars              100           100       100                100           95.9          99.6          97.9          100     100       100          96.4               100             97.9
   Heavy Vehicles                0             0         0                  0            20             3             8            0        0         0           14                 0              45
 % Heavy Vehicles                0             0         0                  0           4.1           0.4           2.1            0        0         0          3.6                 0              2.1




                                                                                                                Quinobequin Road (Rt 128 SB
                               Ashville Road                                Grove Street                                                                     Grove Street
                                                                                                                          Ramp)
                                From North                                   From East                                                                       From West
                                                                                                                        From South
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total          Right      Thru        Left    App. Total     Right   Thru     Left App. Total   Right     Thru           Left   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
    05:00 PM         0       0       0        0        1                     64        112          177          54          0       4      58       9        70           0            79        314
     05:15 PM        0       0       0        0        2                      63       124          189           38         1       8      47      13         45          0            58        294
     05:30 PM        1       0       0        1        0                      72       101          173           56         1       2      59       8         52          1            61        294
     05:45 PM        0       0       3        3        5                     86        115          206          62          4       2      68       7         54          0            61        338
 Total Volume        1       0       3        4        8                    285        452          745         210          6      16     232      37       221           1           259       1240
  % App. Total      25       0      75               1.1                   38.3       60.7                     90.5        2.6     6.9            14.3      85.3         0.4
           PHF    .250    .000    .250     .333    .400                    .828       .911          .904       .847      .375    .500     .853    .712      .789       .250           .820        .917
           Cars      1       0       3        4        8                    274        451           733        207          6      16     229      37       213           1           251       1217
       % Cars      100       0     100      100     100                    96.1       99.8          98.4       98.6       100     100     98.7     100      96.4        100           96.9        98.1
 Heavy Vehicles      0       0       0        0        0                      11          1           12           3         0       0        3      0          8          0              8         23
 % Heavy Vehicles    0       0       0        0        0                     3.9        0.2           1.6        1.4         0       0      1.3      0        3.6          0            3.1        1.9
                                                                                               PRECISION
                                                                                               D A T A
N/S: Ashville Road/ Quinobequin Road                                                           INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                File Name             : 91860 EEE
                                                                                          P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Grove Street                                                                    Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                         Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                              Site Code             : 10865.00
City/State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                        Start Date            : 5/7/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                        Page No               :1


                                                                                          Groups Printed- Cars
                                                                                                           Quinobequin Road (Rt 128 SB
                                      Ashville Road                              Grove Street                                                              Grove Street
                                                                                                                     Ramp)
                                       From North                                 From East                                                                From West
                                                                                                                   From South
             Start Time       Right         Thru        Left             Right         Thru       Left       Right      Thru         Left          Right           Thru           Left        Int. Total
           04:00 PM              0             2             2              0           52             73            35          0          4        10             40               0            218
           04:15 PM              0             0             1              2           44             82            41          0          2         5             47               0            224
           04:30 PM              0             1             1              3           47             84            44          0          3         4             38               0            225
           04:45 PM              0             2             0              2           53             87            54          0          2         6             42               0            248
               Total             0             5             4              7          196            326           174          0         11        25            167               0            915

           05:00 PM              0             0             0              1           62            112            54          0          4         9             67               0            309
           05:15 PM              0             0             0              2           60            124            38          1          8        13             44               0            290
           05:30 PM              1             0             0              0           68            100            54          1          2         8             49               1            284
           05:45 PM              0             0             3              5           84            115            61          4          2         7             53               0            334
               Total             1             0             3              8          274            451           207          6         16        37            213               1           1217

        Grand Total              1             5         7                15          470            777           381            6       27         62         380                 1            2132
          Apprch %             7.7          38.5      53.8                1.2         37.2           61.6            92         1.4       6.5        14         85.8              0.2
           Total %               0           0.2       0.3                0.7          22            36.4          17.9         0.3       1.3        2.9        17.8                0




                                                                                                                Quinobequin Road (Rt 128 SB
                               Ashville Road                                Grove Street                                                                     Grove Street
                                                                                                                          Ramp)
                                From North                                   From East                                                                       From West
                                                                                                                        From South
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total          Right      Thru        Left    App. Total     Right   Thru     Left App. Total   Right     Thru          Left   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
    05:00 PM         0       0       0        0       1                      62        112          175          54         0      4        58       9        67         0             76        309
    05:15 PM         0       0       0        0       2                      60        124          186          38         1      8        47      13        44         0             57        290
    05:30 PM         1       0       0        1       0                      68        100          168          54         1      2        57       8        49         1             58        284
    05:45 PM         0       0       3        3       5                      84        115          204          61         4      2        67       7        53         0             60        334
 Total Volume        1       0       3        4       8                     274        451          733         207         6     16       229      37       213         1            251       1217
 % App. Total      25        0      75              1.1                    37.4       61.5                     90.4       2.6      7              14.7      84.9       0.4
          PHF    .250     .000    .250     .333    .400                    .815       .909          .898       .848      .375   .500      .854    .712      .795      .250           .826        .911
                                                                                               PRECISION
                                                                                               D A T A
N/S: Ashville Road/ Quinobequin Road                                                           INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                   File Name             : 91860 EEE
                                                                                          P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Grove Street                                                                    Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                         Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                 Site Code             : 10865.00
City/State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                           Start Date            : 5/7/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                           Page No               :1


                                                                                     Groups Printed- Heavy Vehicles
                                                                                                           Quinobequin Road (Rt 128 SB
                                      Ashville Road                              Grove Street                                                                 Grove Street
                                                                                                                      Ramp)
                                       From North                                 From East                                                                   From West
                                                                                                                    From South
             Start Time       Right         Thru        Left             Right        Thru         Left      Right       Thru        Left          Right              Thru           Left        Int. Total
           04:00 PM              0             0             0              0              2             1              0        0          0             0             2               0               5
           04:15 PM              0             0             0              0              2             1              1        0          0             0             0               0               4
           04:30 PM              0             0             0              0              2             0              3        0          0             0             1               0               6
           04:45 PM              0             0             0              0              3             0              1        0          0             0             3               0               7
               Total             0             0             0              0              9             2              5        0          0             0             6               0              22

           05:00 PM              0             0             0              0             2              0              0        0          0             0             3               0               5
           05:15 PM              0             0             0              0             3              0              0        0          0             0             1               0               4
           05:30 PM              0             0             0              0             4              1              2        0          0             0             3               0              10
           05:45 PM              0             0             0              0             2              0              1        0          0             0             1               0               4
               Total             0             0             0              0            11              1              3        0          0             0             8               0              23

        Grand Total              0             0             0              0           20               3            8          0          0             0         14                  0              45
          Apprch %               0             0             0              0           87              13         100           0          0             0        100                  0
           Total %               0             0             0              0         44.4             6.7         17.8          0          0             0        31.1                 0




                                                                                                                Quinobequin Road (Rt 128 SB
                               Ashville Road                                Grove Street                                                                        Grove Street
                                                                                                                          Ramp)
                                From North                                   From East                                                                          From West
                                                                                                                        From South
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total          Right      Thru        Left    App. Total     Right   Thru     Left App. Total   Right        Thru          Left   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:45 PM
    04:45 PM         0       0       0        0       0                       3          0             3          1         0      0         1       0            3         0                3          7
    05:00 PM         0       0       0        0       0                       2          0             2          0         0      0         0       0            3         0                3          5
    05:15 PM         0       0       0        0       0                       3          0             3          0         0      0         0       0            1         0                1          4
    05:30 PM         0       0       0        0       0                       4          1             5          2         0      0         2       0            3         0                3         10
 Total Volume        0       0       0        0       0                      12          1            13          3         0      0         3       0           10         0               10         26
 % App. Total        0       0       0                0                    92.3        7.7                      100         0      0                 0          100         0
          PHF    .000     .000    .000     .000    .000                    .750       .250          .650       .375      .000   .000      .375    .000         .833      .000           .833        .650
                                                                                   PRECISION
                                                                                   D A T A
N/S: Ashville Road/ Quinobequin Road                                               INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                        File Name     : 91860 EEE
                                                                                P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Grove Street                                                          Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                               Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                          Site Code     : 10865.00
City/State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                    Start Date    : 5/7/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                    Page No       :1


                                                                         Groups Printed- Peds and Bicycles
                                                                                                Quinobequin Road (Rt 128 SB
                             Ashville Road                          Grove Street                                                                     Grove Street
                                                                                                           Ramp)
                              From North                             From East                                                                       From West
                                                                                                         From South
       Start Time    Right    Thru      Left     Peds    Right      Thru     Left     Peds     Right     Thru     Left    Peds             Right     Thru      Left     Peds         Int. Total
      04:00 PM          0        0           0     0         0         0           0            0        0          0      0        0         0           0         0       0                0
      04:15 PM          0        0           0     0         0         0           0            0        0          0      0        0         0           0         0       0                0
      04:30 PM          0        0           0     3         0         0           0            0        0          0      0        0         0           2         0       0                5
      04:45 PM          0        0           0     5         0         0           0            0        0          0      0        0         0           0         0       0                5
          Total         0        0           0     8         0         0           0            0        0          0      0        0         0           2         0       0               10

      05:00 PM          0        0           0     2         0         0           0            0        0          0      0        0         0           0         0       0                2
      05:15 PM          0        0           0     6         0         0           0            0        0          0      0        0         0           0         0       0                6
      05:30 PM          0        0           0     3         0         0           0            0        0          0      0        0         0           0         0       0                3
      05:45 PM          0        0           0     4         0         0           0            0        0          0      0        0         0           0         0       0                4
          Total         0        0           0    15         0         0           0            0        0          0      0        0         0           0         0       0               15

   Grand Total          0        0           0    23         0         0           0            0        0          0      0        0         0        2            0       0               25
     Apprch %           0        0           0   100         0         0           0            0        0          0      0        0         0      100            0       0
      Total %           0        0           0    92         0         0           0            0        0          0      0        0         0        8            0       0




                            Ashville Road                        Grove Street                       Quinobequin Road (Rt 128 SB Ramp)                 Grove Street
                             From North                           From East                                     From South                            From West
   Start Time Right Thru        Left Peds App. Total Right   Thru    Left Peds         App. Total   Right  Thru    Left Peds App. Total   Right    Thru   Left Peds     App. Total    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:30 PM
  04:30 PM      0       0     0     3        3     0  0    0    0                             0  0    0    0    0                    0    0    2    0    0                      2           5
  04:45 PM      0       0     0     5        5     0  0    0    0                             0  0    0    0    0                    0    0    0    0    0                      0           5
  05:00 PM      0       0     0     2        2     0  0    0    0                             0  0    0    0    0                    0    0    0    0    0                      0           2
  05:15 PM      0       0     0     6        6     0  0    0    0                             0  0    0    0    0                    0    0    0    0    0                      0           6
 Total Volume   0       0     0    16      16      0  0    0    0                             0  0    0    0    0                    0    0    2    0    0                      2          18
 % App. Total   0       0     0 100                0  0    0    0                                0    0    0    0                         0 100     0    0
        PHF .000 .000 .000 .667          .667 .000 .000 .000 .000                        .000 .000 .000 .000 .000                 .000 .000 .250 .000 .000                .250          .750
                                                                                             PRECISION
                                                                                             D A T A
N/S: Ashville Road/ Quinobequin Road                                                         INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                       File Name            : 91860 EEE
                                                                                        P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Grove Street                                                                  Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                       Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                   Site Code            : 10865.00
City/State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                             Start Date           : 5/7/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                             Page No              :1



                                                                                                              Quinobequin Road (Rt 128 SB
                               Ashville Road                               Grove Street                                                                          Grove Street
                                                                                                                        Ramp)
                                From North                                  From East                                                                            From West
                                                                                                                      From South
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total           Right   Thru        Left     App. Total    Right   Thru     Left App. Total       Right       Thru          Left   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
    05:00 PM         0       0       0        0        1                    64       112           177         54          0       4      58           9         70              0         79        314
     05:15 PM        0       0       0        0        2                     63      124           189          38         1       8      47          13          45             0         58        294
     05:30 PM        1       0       0        1        0                     72      101           173          56         1       2      59           8          52             1         61        294
     05:45 PM        0       0       3        3        5                    86       115           206         62          4       2      68           7          54             0         61        338
 Total Volume        1       0       3        4        8                   285       452           745        210          6      16     232          37        221              1        259       1240
  % App. Total      25       0      75               1.1                  38.3      60.7                     90.5        2.6     6.9                14.3       85.3            0.4
           PHF    .250    .000    .250     .333    .400                   .828      .911           .904      .847      .375    .500     .853        .712       .789          .250        .820        .917
           Cars      1       0       3        4        8                   274       451            733       207          6      16     229          37        213              1        251       1217
       % Cars      100       0     100      100     100                   96.1      99.8           98.4      98.6       100     100     98.7         100       96.4           100        96.9        98.1
 Heavy Vehicles      0       0       0        0        0                     11         1            12          3         0       0        3          0           8             0           8         23
 % Heavy Vehicles    0       0       0        0        0                    3.9       0.2            1.6       1.4         0       0      1.3          0         3.6             0         3.1        1.9

                                                                                                Ashville Road
                                                                                        Out           In      Total
                                                                                          15             4       19
                                                                                            0            0        0
                                                                                          15             4       19


                                                                                                 1     0        3
                                                                                                 0     0        0
                                                                                                 1     0        3
                                                                                             Right Thru     Left




                                                                                    Peak Hour Data
                                     542
                                       19
                                     561
                                    Total




                                                                                                                                                        Out
                                                        1
                                                        0
                                                        1




                                                                                                                                                         434

                                                                                                                                                         423
                                                                                                                                       Right Thru
                                                    Left




                                                                                                                                                          11




                                                                                                    North
                                     Grove Street




                                                                                                                                                        Grove Street
                                                                                                                                           8
                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                           8
                                            251
                                              8
                                            259




                                                                                   Peak Hour Begins at 05:00 PM
                                                           213
                                                              8
                                                           221
                                                    Right Thru
                                           In




                                                                                                                                                            In
                                                                                                                                              285

                                                                                                                                              274


                                                                                                                                                             745

                                                                                                                                                             733
                                                                                                                                               11




                                                                                                                                                              12




                                                                                   Cars
                                                                                   Heavy Vehicles
                                                       37
                                                        0
                                                       37




                                                                                                                                       Left
                                  291
                                   11
                                  302




                                                                                                                                        452

                                                                                                                                        451
                                 Out




                                                                                                                                                                     Total
                                                                                                                                                                     1179

                                                                                                                                                                     1156
                                                                                                                                           1




                                                                                                                                                                        23




                                                                                             Left Thru Right
                                                                                               16     6  207
                                                                                                 0    0    3
                                                                                               16     6  210


                                                                                         488      229       717
                                                                                            1       3         4
                                                                                         489      232       721
                                                                                        Out      In       Total
                                                                                  Quinobequin Road (Rt 128 SB Ramp)
                                                                                            PRECISION
                                                                                            D A T A
N/S: I-95/128 NB Ramps                                                                      INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                      File Name          : 91860 FFF
                                                                                        P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Grove Street                                                                  Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                       Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                 Site Code          : 10865.00
City/State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                           Start Date         : 5/7/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                           Page No            :1


                                                                                Groups Printed- Cars - Heavy Vehicles
                                I-95/128 NB Onramp                             Grove Street                   I-95/128 NB Offramp                        Grove Street
                                     From North                                 From East                          From South                            From West
             Start Time       Right       Thru          Left             Right       Thru        Left       Right       Thru              Left     Right       Thru             Left        Int. Total
           04:00 PM              0            0              0            60         125               0           54            3        11              0            73         7             333
           04:15 PM              0            0              0            33         122               0           62            0         6              0            79        10             312
           04:30 PM              0            0              0            69         124               0           68            1         9              0            77        13             361
           04:45 PM              0            0              0            49         129               0           84            0        21              0            88         9             380
               Total             0            0              0           211         500               0          268            4        47              0           317        39            1386

           05:00 PM              0            0              0            76         170               0           87            0        18              0           106        14             471
           05:15 PM              0            0              0            51         169               0          102            1        14              0            81         5             423
           05:30 PM              0            0              0            63         170               0           94            0        12              0           102         6             447
           05:45 PM              0            0              0            58         177               0          106            0        25              0           104         9             479
               Total             0            0              0           248         686               0          389            1        69              0           393        34            1820

      Grand Total                0            0              0           459        1186               0         657             5      116               0       710            73            3206
        Apprch %                 0            0              0           27.9        72.1              0         84.4          0.6      14.9              0       90.7          9.3
          Total %                0            0              0           14.3         37               0         20.5          0.2       3.6              0       22.1          2.3
            Cars                 0            0              0           450        1166               0         646             5      114               0       690            73            3144
          % Cars                 0            0              0            98         98.3              0         98.3          100      98.3              0       97.2          100             98.1
   Heavy Vehicles                0            0              0              9         20               0           11            0         2              0         20            0              62
 % Heavy Vehicles                0            0              0              2         1.7              0          1.7            0       1.7              0        2.8            0              1.9




                           I-95/128 NB Onramp                               Grove Street                           I-95/128 NB Offramp                        Grove Street
                                From North                                   From East                                  From South                             From West
      Start Time     Right     Thru     Left App. Total          Right      Thru     Left    App. Total      Right     Thru     Left App. Total   Right       Thru     Left    App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
    05:00 PM         0       0       0        0      76                     170        0          246           87         0     18       105        0         106        14        120        471
     05:15 PM        0       0       0        0       51                    169        0          220         102          1     14       117        0           81        5         86        423
     05:30 PM        0       0       0        0       63                    170        0          233           94         0     12       106        0         102         6        108        447
     05:45 PM        0       0       0        0       58                    177        0          235         106          0     25       131        0         104         9        113        479
 Total Volume        0       0       0        0     248                     686        0          934         389          1     69       459        0         393        34        427       1820
  % App. Total       0       0       0             26.6                    73.4        0                     84.7        0.2     15                  0           92        8
           PHF    .000    .000    .000     .000    .816                    .969     .000          .949       .917      .250    .690       .876    .000        .927      .607       .890        .950
           Cars      0       0       0        0     244                     675        0           919        381          1     69        451       0         384        34        418       1788
       % Cars        0       0       0        0    98.4                    98.4        0          98.4       97.9       100     100       98.3       0        97.7       100       97.9        98.2
 Heavy Vehicles      0       0       0        0        4                      11       0            15           8         0      0           8      0            9        0           9         32
 % Heavy Vehicles    0       0       0        0      1.6                     1.6       0            1.6        2.1         0      0         1.7      0          2.3        0         2.1        1.8
                                                                                            PRECISION
                                                                                            D A T A
N/S: I-95/128 NB Ramps                                                                      INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                    File Name          : 91860 FFF
                                                                                       P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Grove Street                                                                 Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                      Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                               Site Code          : 10865.00
City/State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                         Start Date         : 5/7/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                         Page No            :1


                                                                                         Groups Printed- Cars
                                I-95/128 NB Onramp                             Grove Street                   I-95/128 NB Offramp                       Grove Street
                                     From North                                 From East                          From South                           From West
             Start Time       Right       Thru          Left             Right       Thru        Left       Right       Thru             Left     Right       Thru            Left        Int. Total
           04:00 PM              0            0              0            59         123              0           53           3         11              0           71         7             327
           04:15 PM              0            0              0            33         120              0           62           0          5              0           78        10             308
           04:30 PM              0            0              0            67         122              0           66           1          8              0           73        13             350
           04:45 PM              0            0              0            47         126              0           84           0         21              0           84         9             371
               Total             0            0              0           206         491              0          265           4         45              0          306        39            1356

           05:00 PM              0            0              0            75         168              0           83           0         18              0          103        14             461
           05:15 PM              0            0              0            51         166              0          100           1         14              0           80         5             417
           05:30 PM              0            0              0            62         166              0           92           0         12              0           99         6             437
           05:45 PM              0            0              0            56         175              0          106           0         25              0          102         9             473
               Total             0            0              0           244         675              0          381           1         69              0          384        34            1788

        Grand Total              0            0              0           450       1166               0         646            5       114               0      690            73            3144
          Apprch %               0            0              0           27.8       72.2              0         84.4         0.7       14.9              0      90.4          9.6
           Total %               0            0              0           14.3       37.1              0         20.5         0.2        3.6              0      21.9          2.3




                           I-95/128 NB Onramp                               Grove Street                          I-95/128 NB Offramp                        Grove Street
                                From North                                   From East                                 From South                             From West
      Start Time     Right     Thru     Left App. Total          Right      Thru     Left    App. Total     Right     Thru     Left App. Total   Right       Thru     Left   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
    05:00 PM         0       0       0        0      75                     168        0          243         83         0     18        101        0         103       14        117        461
    05:15 PM         0       0       0        0      51                     166        0          217        100         1     14        115        0          80        5         85        417
    05:30 PM         0       0       0        0      62                     166        0          228         92         0     12        104        0          99        6        105        437
    05:45 PM         0       0       0        0      56                     175        0          231        106         0     25        131        0         102        9        111        473
 Total Volume        0       0       0        0     244                     675        0          919        381         1     69        451        0         384       34        418       1788
 % App. Total        0       0       0             26.6                    73.4        0                    84.5       0.2   15.3                   0        91.9      8.1
          PHF    .000     .000    .000     .000    .813                    .964     .000         .945       .899      .250   .690        .861    .000        .932     .607       .893        .945
                                                                                            PRECISION
                                                                                            D A T A
N/S: I-95/128 NB Ramps                                                                      INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                    File Name          : 91860 FFF
                                                                                       P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Grove Street                                                                 Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                      Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                               Site Code          : 10865.00
City/State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                         Start Date         : 5/7/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                         Page No            :1


                                                                                   Groups Printed- Heavy Vehicles
                                I-95/128 NB Onramp                             Grove Street                  I-95/128 NB Offramp                        Grove Street
                                     From North                                 From East                         From South                            From West
             Start Time       Right       Thru          Left             Right       Thru        Left      Right       Thru              Left     Right       Thru            Left        Int. Total
           04:00 PM              0            0              0              1           2             0              1         0           0             0           2           0               6
           04:15 PM              0            0              0              0           2             0              0         0           1             0           1           0               4
           04:30 PM              0            0              0              2           2             0              2         0           1             0           4           0              11
           04:45 PM              0            0              0              2           3             0              0         0           0             0           4           0               9
               Total             0            0              0              5           9             0              3         0           2             0          11           0              30

           05:00 PM              0            0              0              1          2              0              4         0           0             0           3           0              10
           05:15 PM              0            0              0              0          3              0              2         0           0             0           1           0               6
           05:30 PM              0            0              0              1          4              0              2         0           0             0           3           0              10
           05:45 PM              0            0              0              2          2              0              0         0           0             0           2           0               6
               Total             0            0              0              4         11              0              8         0           0             0           9           0              32

        Grand Total              0            0              0              9        20               0          11            0          2              0       20              0              62
          Apprch %               0            0              0            31         69               0         84.6           0       15.4              0      100              0
           Total %               0            0              0           14.5       32.3              0         17.7           0        3.2              0      32.3             0




                           I-95/128 NB Onramp                               Grove Street                          I-95/128 NB Offramp                        Grove Street
                                From North                                   From East                                 From South                             From West
      Start Time     Right     Thru     Left App. Total          Right      Thru     Left    App. Total     Right     Thru     Left App. Total   Right       Thru     Left   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:30 PM
    04:30 PM         0       0       0        0       2                       2        0            4          2         0      1           3       0           4       0             4         11
    04:45 PM         0       0       0        0       2                       3        0            5          0         0      0           0       0           4       0             4          9
    05:00 PM         0       0       0        0       1                       2        0            3          4         0      0           4       0           3       0             3         10
    05:15 PM         0       0       0        0       0                       3        0            3          2         0      0           2       0           1       0             1          6
 Total Volume        0       0       0        0       5                      10        0           15          8         0      1           9       0          12       0            12         36
 % App. Total        0       0       0             33.3                    66.7        0                    88.9         0   11.1                   0         100       0
          PHF    .000     .000    .000     .000    .625                    .833     .000         .750       .500      .000   .250        .563    .000        .750    .000        .750        .818
                                                                                  PRECISION
                                                                                  D A T A
N/S: I-95/128 NB Ramps                                                            INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                              File Name        : 91860 FFF
                                                                               P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Grove Street                                                         Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                              Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                               Site Code        : 10865.00
City/State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                         Start Date       : 5/7/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                         Page No          :1


                                                                       Groups Printed- Peds and Bicycles
                           I-95/128 NB Onramp                     Grove Street                     I-95/128 NB Offramp                                       Grove Street
                                From North                         From East                            From South                                           From West
       Start Time    Right      Thru     Left    Peds     Right   Thru      Left    Peds     Right      Thru     Left                 Peds         Right     Thru      Left    Peds         Int. Total
      04:00 PM           0        0        0        3         0       0           0            0           0          0        0           0          0         1        0         0                4
      04:15 PM           0        0        0        1         0       0           0            0           0          0        0           0          0         0        0         0                1
      04:30 PM           0        0        0        2         0       0           0            0           0          0        0           1          0         0        0         0                3
      04:45 PM           0        0        0        6         0       0           0            0           0          0        0           0          0         0        0         0                6
          Total          0        0        0       12         0       0           0            0           0          0        0           1          0         1        0         0               14

      05:00 PM           0        0        0        0         0       0           0            0           0          0        0           0          0         0        0         0                 0
      05:15 PM           0        0        0        2         0       0           0            0           0          0        0           0          0         0        0         0                 2
      05:30 PM           0        0        0        6         0       0           0            0           0          0        0           0          0         0        0         0                 6
      05:45 PM           0        0        0        1         0       0           0            0           0          0        0           0          0         0        0         0                 1
          Total          0        0        0        9         0       0           0            0           0          0        0           0          0         0        0         0                 9

   Grand Total           0        0        0      21          0       0           0            0           0          0        0          1           0         1        0         0               23
     Apprch %            0        0        0     100          0       0           0            0           0          0        0       100            0      100         0         0
      Total %            0        0        0     91.3         0       0           0            0           0          0        0        4.3           0       4.3        0         0




                         I-95/128 NB Onramp                       Grove Street                                 I-95/128 NB Offramp                             Grove Street
                              From North                           From East                                        From South                                  From West
   Start Time Right Thru         Left Peds App. Total Right   Thru    Left Peds       App. Total   Right       Thru    Left Peds     App. Total   Right    Thru    Left Peds   App. Total    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:00 PM
  04:00 PM      0       0     0     3        3     0  0    0    0                            0  0    0    0    0                            0  0    1    0    0                        1           4
  04:15 PM      0       0     0     1        1     0  0    0    0                            0  0    0    0    0                            0  0    0    0    0                        0           1
  04:30 PM      0       0     0     2        2     0  0    0    0                            0  0    0    0    1                            1  0    0    0    0                        0           3
  04:45 PM      0       0     0     6        6     0  0    0    0                            0  0    0    0    0                            0  0    0    0    0                        0           6
 Total Volume   0       0     0    12      12      0  0    0    0                            0  0    0    0    1                            1  0    1    0    0                        1          14
 % App. Total   0       0     0 100                0  0    0    0                               0    0    0 100                                0 100     0    0
        PHF .000 .000 .000 .500          .500 .000 .000 .000 .000                       .000 .000 .000 .000 .250                       .250 .000 .250 .000 .000                  .250          .583
                                                                                          PRECISION
                                                                                          D A T A
N/S: I-95/128 NB Ramps                                                                    INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                            File Name           : 91860 FFF
                                                                                       P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Grove Street                                                                 Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                      Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                     Site Code           : 10865.00
City/State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                               Start Date          : 5/7/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                               Page No             :1



                           I-95/128 NB Onramp                             Grove Street                            I-95/128 NB Offramp                           Grove Street
                                From North                                 From East                                   From South                                From West
      Start Time     Right     Thru     Left App. Total           Right   Thru     Left     App. Total      Right     Thru     Left App. Total      Right       Thru     Left       App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
    05:00 PM         0       0       0        0      76                    170        0          246           87         0     18       105           0        106            14        120        471
     05:15 PM        0       0       0        0       51                   169        0          220         102          1     14       117           0          81            5         86        423
     05:30 PM        0       0       0        0       63                   170        0          233           94         0     12       106           0        102             6        108        447
     05:45 PM        0       0       0        0       58                   177        0          235         106          0     25       131           0        104             9        113        479
 Total Volume        0       0       0        0     248                    686        0          934         389          1     69       459           0        393            34        427       1820
  % App. Total       0       0       0             26.6                   73.4        0                     84.7        0.2     15                     0          92            8
           PHF    .000    .000    .000     .000    .816                   .969     .000          .949       .917      .250    .690       .876       .000       .927          .607       .890        .950
           Cars      0       0       0        0     244                    675        0           919        381          1     69        451          0        384            34        418       1788
       % Cars        0       0       0        0    98.4                   98.4        0          98.4       97.9       100     100       98.3          0       97.7           100       97.9        98.2
 Heavy Vehicles      0       0       0        0        4                     11       0            15           8         0      0           8         0           9            0           9         32
 % Heavy Vehicles    0       0       0        0      1.6                    1.6       0            1.6        2.1         0      0         1.7         0         2.3            0         2.1        1.8

                                                                                        I-95/128 NB Onramp
                                                                                       Out       In     Total
                                                                                        279         0    279
                                                                                           4        0       4
                                                                                        283         0    283


                                                                                              0     0          0
                                                                                              0     0          0
                                                                                              0     0          0
                                                                                          Right Thru       Left




                                                                                   Peak Hour Data
                                    1162
                                       20
                                    1182
                                    Total




                                                                                                                                                        Out
                                                      34
                                                        0
                                                      34




                                                                                                                                                         782

                                                                                                                                                         765
                                                                                                                                       Right Thru
                                                    Left




                                                                                                                                                          17
                                                                                                                                         248

                                                                                                                                         244




                                                                                                  North
                                     Grove Street




                                                                                                                                                        Grove Street
                                                                                                                                           4
                                            418
                                              9
                                            427




                                                                                  Peak Hour Begins at 05:00 PM
                                                           384
                                                              9
                                                           393
                                                    Right Thru
                                           In




                                                                                                                                                            In
                                                                                                                                              686

                                                                                                                                              675


                                                                                                                                                             934

                                                                                                                                                             919
                                                                                                                                               11




                                                                                                                                                              15




                                                                                  Cars
                                                                                  Heavy Vehicles
                                                        0
                                                        0
                                                        0




                                                                                                                                       Left
                                  744
                                   11
                                  755
                                 Out




                                                                                                                                                                     Total
                                                                                                                                                                     1716

                                                                                                                                                                     1684
                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                           0



                                                                                                                                                                        32




                                                                                          Left Thru Right
                                                                                            69     1  381
                                                                                              0    0    8
                                                                                            69     1  389


                                                                                            0     451     451
                                                                                            0       8        8
                                                                                            0     459     459
                                                                                       Out       In      Total
                                                                                        I-95/128 NB Offramp
                                                                                    PRECISION
                                                                                    D A T A
N/S: Riverside MBTA Driveway                                                        INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                      File Name         : 91860 JJJ
                                                                                 P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Grove Street                                                           Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                         Site Code         : 10865.00
City/State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                   Start Date        : 5/7/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                   Page No           :1


                                                                   Groups Printed- Cars - Heavy Vehicles
                                              Riverside MBTA Driveway                         Grove Street                                Grove Street
                                                     From North                                 From East                                 From West
                       Start Time           Right             Left        U-Turn              Right                        Thru           Thru              Left               Int. Total
                      04:00 PM                41                   7                     1                   5             149             84                42                   329
                      04:15 PM                18                   7                     1                   6             134             85                46                   297
                      04:30 PM                43                  13                     0                  11             155             82                64                   368
                      04:45 PM                40                   7                     0                  11             134            101                61                   354
                          Total              142                  34                     2                  33             572            352               213                  1348

                      05:00 PM                39                  12                     1                  10             211            111                74                   458
                      05:15 PM                41                   6                     1                  11             187            130                50                   426
                      05:30 PM                41                   8                     0                  12             192            112                75                   440
                      05:45 PM                47                   7                     0                  11             187            134                63                   449
                          Total              168                  33                     2                  44             777            487               262                  1773

                 Grand Total                310               67                        4                   77            1349            839              475                   3121
                   Apprch %                 81.4             17.6                       1                   5.4            94.6           63.9             36.1
                     Total %                 9.9              2.1                     0.1                   2.5            43.2           26.9             15.2
                       Cars                 287               66                        4                   77            1344            824              453                   3055
                     % Cars                 92.6             98.5                    100                   100             99.6           98.2             95.4                   97.9
              Heavy Vehicles                 23                 1                       0                     0               5            15               22                     66
            % Heavy Vehicles                 7.4              1.5                       0                     0             0.4            1.8              4.6                    2.1




                                        Riverside MBTA Driveway                                      Grove Street                           Grove Street
                                               From North                                             From East                             From West
              Start Time       Right          Left      U-Turn         App. Total            Right        Thru       App. Total   Thru            Left      App. Total        Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
           05:00 PM           39         12           1                      52                 10          211           221      111             74              185             458
           05:15 PM            41         6           1                      48                 11          187           198      130             50              180             426
           05:30 PM            41         8           0                      49                12           192           204      112             75
           05:45 PM            47         7           0                      54                 11          187           198      134             63              197            449
      Total Volume           168         33           2                     203                 44          777           821      487            262              749           1773
       % App. Total         82.8       16.3           1                                        5.4         94.6                      65             35
                PHF         .894       .688        .500                    .940              .917          .921          .929     .909           .873              .951           .968
               Cars          156         33           2                     191                 44          775           819      480            251               731          1741
             % Cars         92.9        100         100                    94.1               100          99.7          99.8     98.6           95.8              97.6           98.2
     Heavy Vehicles            12         0           0                       12                 0             2             2        7             11                18            32
  % Heavy Vehicles            7.1         0           0                      5.9                 0           0.3           0.2      1.4            4.2               2.4           1.8
                                                                                     PRECISION
                                                                                     D A T A
N/S: Riverside MBTA Driveway                                                         INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                    File Name        : 91860 JJJ
                                                                                 P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Grove Street                                                           Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                        Site Code        : 10865.00
City/State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                  Start Date       : 5/7/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                  Page No          :1


                                                                                    Groups Printed- Cars
                                              Riverside MBTA Driveway                                  Grove Street                      Grove Street
                                                     From North                                          From East                       From West
                       Start Time           Right             Left                  U-Turn             Right               Thru          Thru              Left              Int. Total
                      04:00 PM                40                   7                     1                   5             148            80                40                  321
                      04:15 PM                17                   7                     1                   6             133            85                45                  294
                      04:30 PM                40                  12                     0                  11             154            79                59                  355
                      04:45 PM                34                   7                     0                  11             134           100                58                  344
                          Total              131                  33                     2                  33             569           344               202                 1314

                      05:00 PM                37                  12                     1                  10             211           108                71                  450
                      05:15 PM                38                   6                     1                  11             187           128                49                  420
                      05:30 PM                37                   8                     0                  12             190           111                70                  428
                      05:45 PM                44                   7                     0                  11             187           133                61                  443
                          Total              156                  33                     2                  44             775           480               251                 1741

                   Grand Total              287                66                       4                  77             1344           824              453                  3055
                     Apprch %               80.4             18.5                     1.1                  5.4             94.6          64.5             35.5
                      Total %                9.4              2.2                     0.1                  2.5              44            27              14.8




                                        Riverside MBTA Driveway                                      Grove Street                          Grove Street
                                               From North                                             From East                            From West
              Start Time       Right          Left      U-Turn         App. Total            Right        Thru       App. Total   Thru           Left      App. Total       Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
           05:00 PM           37         12           1                      50                10          211            221      108            71              179            450
           05:15 PM            38         6           1                      45                11          187            198      128            49              177            420
           05:30 PM            37         8           0                      45                12          190            202      111            70              181            428
           05:45 PM            44                                            51                                                    133            61              194
      Total Volume           156         33           2                     191                44           775           819      480           251              731          1741
       % App. Total         81.7       17.3           1                                       5.4          94.6                   65.7          34.3
                PHF         .886       .688        .500                    .936              .917          .918          .926     .902          .884              .942          .967
                                                                                     PRECISION
                                                                                     D A T A
N/S: Riverside MBTA Driveway                                                         INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                     File Name        : 91860 JJJ
                                                                                  P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Grove Street                                                            Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                 Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                         Site Code        : 10865.00
City/State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                   Start Date       : 5/7/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                   Page No          :1


                                                                              Groups Printed- Heavy Vehicles
                                              Riverside MBTA Driveway                                Grove Street                         Grove Street
                                                     From North                                       From East                           From West
                       Start Time           Right             Left                U-Turn             Right                  Thru          Thru              Left              Int. Total
                      04:00 PM                 1                   0                      0                    0               1             4                2                      8
                      04:15 PM                 1                   0                      0                    0               1             0                1                      3
                      04:30 PM                 3                   1                      0                    0               1             3                5                     13
                      04:45 PM                 6                   0                      0                    0               0             1                3                     10
                          Total               11                   1                      0                    0               3             8               11                     34

                      05:00 PM                 2                   0                      0                    0               0             3                3                      8
                      05:15 PM                 3                   0                      0                    0               0             2                1                      6
                      05:30 PM                 4                   0                      0                    0               2             1                5                     12
                      05:45 PM                 3                   0                      0                    0               0             1                2                      6
                          Total               12                   0                      0                    0               2             7               11                     32

                   Grand Total                23                    1                     0                    0               5           15               22                      66
                     Apprch %               95.8                  4.2                     0                    0            100           40.5             59.5
                      Total %               34.8                  1.5                     0                    0             7.6          22.7             33.3




                                        Riverside MBTA Driveway                                       Grove Street                          Grove Street
                                               From North                                              From East                            From West
              Start Time       Right          Left      U-Turn          App. Total            Right        Thru       App. Total   Thru           Left      App. Total       Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:30 PM
           04:30 PM             3          1          0                         4                0              1             1      3              5                8              13
           04:45 PM             6                                               6
           05:00 PM             2          0          0                         2                0             0              0       3             3                6               8
           05:15 PM             3          0          0                         3                0             0              0       2             1                3               6
      Total Volume             14          1          0                        15                0             1              1       9            12               21              37
       % App. Total         93.3         6.7          0                                          0           100                   42.9          57.1
                PHF         .583       .250        .000                     .625              .000          .250          .250     .750          .600              .656          .712
                                                                                      PRECISION
                                                                                      D A T A
N/S: Riverside MBTA Driveway                                                          INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                        File Name        : 91860 JJJ
                                                                                  P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Grove Street                                                            Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                 Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                             Site Code        : 10865.00
City/State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                       Start Date       : 5/7/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                       Page No          :1


                                                                        Groups Printed- Peds and Bicycles
                                      Riverside MBTA Driveway                           Grove Street                                          Grove Street
                                             From North                                  From East                                            From West
                  Start Time         Right          Left           Peds        Right           Thru                       Peds       Thru             Left        Peds           Int. Total
                 04:00 PM                0              0                2                0                 0                 0           0             0            0                  2
                 04:15 PM                0              0                1                0                 0                 0           0             0            0                  1
                 04:30 PM                0              0                3                0                 0                 0           1             0            0                  4
                 04:45 PM                0              0                9                0                 0                 0           0             0            0                  9
                     Total               0              0               15                0                 0                 0           1             0            0                 16

                 05:00 PM                0              1                3                0                 0                 0           0             0            0                   4
                 05:15 PM                0              0                1                0                 0                 0           0             0            0                   1
                 05:30 PM                0              0                4                0                 0                 0           0             0            0                   4
                 05:45 PM                0              0                0                0                 0                 0           0             0            0                   0
                     Total               0              1                8                0                 0                 0           0             0            0                   9

              Grand Total                0             1            23                    0                 0                 0        1                0            0                 25
                Apprch %                 0           4.2           95.8                   0                 0                 0      100                0            0
                 Total %                 0             4            92                    0                 0                 0        4                0            0




                                 Riverside MBTA Driveway                                       Grove Street                                     Grove Street
                                        From North                                              From East                                        From West
           Start Time      Right       Left      Peds      App. Total        Right            Thru       Peds         App. Total   Thru         Left      Peds   App. Total      Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:15 PM
        04:15 PM           0         0         1                   1              0             0            0                0      0            0          0            0              1
        04:30 PM           0         0         3                   3              0             0            0                0      1            0          0            1              4
        04:45 PM           0         0         9                   9              0             0            0                0      0            0          0            0              9
        05:00 PM           0         1
    Total Volume           0         1        16                  17            0             0             0                 0       1          0          0             1            18
     % App. Total          0       5.9      94.1                                0             0             0                       100          0          0
             PHF        .000      .250      .444                .472         .000          .000          .000             .000     .250       .000       .000        .250            .500
                                                                               PRECISION
                                                                               D A T A
N/S: Riverside MBTA Driveway                                                   INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                             File Name         : 91860 JJJ
                                                                            P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Grove Street                                                      Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                           Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                           Site Code         : 10865.00
City/State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                     Start Date        : 5/7/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                     Page No           :1



                                        Riverside MBTA Driveway                                 Grove Street                               Grove Street
                                               From North                                        From East                                 From West
              Start Time       Right          Left      U-Turn    App. Total           Right         Thru       App. Total          Thru         Left           App. Total      Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
           05:00 PM           39         12           1                 52                10           211           221            111            74                185            458
           05:15 PM            41         6           1                 48                11           187           198            130            50                180            426
           05:30 PM            41         8           0                 49               12            192           204            112            75
           05:45 PM            47         7           0                 54                11           187           198            134            63                197            449
      Total Volume           168         33           2                203                44           777           821            487           262                749           1773
       % App. Total         82.8       16.3           1                                  5.4          94.6                            65            35
                PHF         .894       .688        .500               .940             .917           .921          .929           .909          .873               .951            .968
               Cars          156         33           2                191                44           775           819            480           251                731           1741
             % Cars         92.9        100         100               94.1              100           99.7          99.8           98.6          95.8               97.6            98.2
     Heavy Vehicles            12         0           0                  12                0              2             2              7            11                 18             32
  % Heavy Vehicles            7.1         0           0                 5.9                0            0.3           0.2            1.4           4.2                2.4            1.8

                                                                           Riverside MBTA Driveway
                                                                            Out       In      Total
                                                                             295       191     486
                                                                              11        12       23
                                                                             306       203     509


                                                                                 156      33     2
                                                                                  12        0    0
                                                                                 168      33     2
                                                                               Right    Left U-Turn




                                                                        Peak Hour Data
                                 1662

                                 1694
                                    32
                                 Total




                                                                                                                                           Out
                                                                                                                                            520

                                                                                                                                            513
                                                                                                                                               7




                                                                                       North
                                                  251
                                                   11
                                                  262




                                                                                                                             Right Thru
                                  Grove Street




                                                                                                                                           Grove Street
                                                 Left
                                         731
                                          18
                                         749




                                                                      Peak Hour Begins at 05:00 PM
                                                                                                                                44

                                                                                                                                44
                                        In




                                                                                                                                 0




                                                                                                                                               In
                                                                                                                                                821

                                                                                                                                                819
                                                  480
                                                     7
                                                  487
                                                 Thru




                                                                      Cars
                                                                                                                                                  2
                                                                                                                                    777

                                                                                                                                    775




                                                                      Heavy Vehicles
                                                                                                                                       2
                               931
                                14
                               945
                              Out




                                                                                                                                                        Total
                                                                                                                                                        1341

                                                                                                                                                        1332
                                                                                                                                                            9
                                                                                    PRECISION
                                                                                    D A T A
N/S: Hancock Street/ Grove Street                                                   INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                  File Name        : 91860 NNN
                                                                                 P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E: Grove Street                                                             Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                     Site Code        : 10865.00
City/State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                               Start Date       : 5/7/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                               Page No          :1


                                                                          Groups Printed- Cars - Heavy Vehicles
                                                  Hancock Street                             Grove Street                             Grove Street
                                                   From North                                 From East                               From South
                           Start Time              Thru                    Left              Right                        Left        Right                Thru            Int. Total
                          04:00 PM                    7                      0                      2                     91               71                8                  179
                          04:15 PM                    2                      0                      0                     86               76               11                  175
                          04:30 PM                    5                      1                      4                     84               84               15                  193
                          04:45 PM                    7                      1                      1                     82               97                9                  197
                              Total                  21                      2                      7                    343              328               43                  744

                          05:00 PM                    7                      1                     1                     108              126               15                 258
                          05:15 PM                   10                      3                     9                     116              132               18                 288
                          05:30 PM                   17                      0                    16                     120              132               17                 302
                          05:45 PM                    6                      0                     3                     116              127               12                 264
                              Total                  40                      4                    29                     460              517               62                1112

                     Grand Total                     61                      6                    36                    803           845                  105                1856
                       Apprch %                      91                      9                    4.3                   95.7          88.9                 11.1
                         Total %                    3.3                    0.3                    1.9                   43.3          45.5                  5.7
                           Cars                      59                      6                    36                    799           837                  103                1840
                         % Cars                    96.7                   100                    100                    99.5          99.1                 98.1                99.1
                  Heavy Vehicles                      2                      0                      0                      4             8                    2                 16
                % Heavy Vehicles                    3.3                      0                      0                    0.5           0.9                  1.9                 0.9




                                          Hancock Street                                     Grove Street                                   Grove Street
                                           From North                                         From East                                     From South
                Start Time         Thru          Left        App. Total           Right            Left              App. Total   Right          Thru       App. Total     Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
            05:00 PM              7            1                     8                 1             108                  109      126             15             141          258
            05:15 PM             10            3                    13                 9             116                  125      132             18             150          288
             05:30 PM            17            0                    17               16              120                  136      132             17             149          302
             05:45 PM             6            0                     6                 3             116                  119      127             12             139          264
        Total Volume             40            4                    44                29             460                  489      517             62             579         1112
        % App. Total           90.9          9.1                                     5.9            94.1                          89.3           10.7
                  PHF          .588        .333                    .647            .453             .958                 .899     .979           .861             .965         .921
                  Cars           38            4                     42               29             459                  488      516             61              577        1107
               % Cars          95.0         100                    95.5             100             99.8                 99.8     99.8           98.4             99.7         99.6
      Heavy Vehicles              2            0                      2                0                1                   1         1             1                 2           5
    % Heavy Vehicles            5.0            0                    4.5                0              0.2                 0.2       0.2           1.6               0.3         0.4
                                                                                   PRECISION
                                                                                   D A T A
N/S: Hancock Street/ Grove Street                                                  INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                  File Name       : 91860 NNN
                                                                                P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E: Grove Street                                                            Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                               Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                    Site Code       : 10865.00
City/State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                              Start Date      : 5/7/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                              Page No         :1


                                                                                  Groups Printed- Cars
                                                  Hancock Street                             Grove Street                            Grove Street
                                                   From North                                 From East                              From South
                           Start Time              Thru                   Left               Right                       Left        Right                Thru           Int. Total
                          04:00 PM                    7                     0                      2                     90               69                8                 176
                          04:15 PM                    2                     0                      0                     86               76               11                 175
                          04:30 PM                    5                     1                      4                     84               81               14                 189
                          04:45 PM                    7                     1                      1                     80               95                9                 193
                              Total                  21                     2                      7                    340              321               42                 733

                          05:00 PM                    6                     1                     1                     108              126               15                257
                          05:15 PM                   10                     3                     9                     116              132               18                288
                          05:30 PM                   16                     0                    16                     119              131               17                299
                          05:45 PM                    6                     0                     3                     116              127               11                263
                              Total                  38                     4                    29                     459              516               61               1107

                       Grand Total                   59                     6                    36                    799           837                  103               1840
                         Apprch %                  90.8                   9.2                    4.3                   95.7            89                  11
                          Total %                   3.2                   0.3                      2                   43.4          45.5                 5.6




                                          Hancock Street                                    Grove Street                                   Grove Street
                                           From North                                        From East                                     From South
                Start Time         Thru          Left        App. Total          Right            Left              App. Total   Right          Thru       App. Total    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
            05:00 PM              6            1                     7               1              108                  109      126             15             141         257
            05:15 PM             10            3                    13               9              116                  125      132             18             150         288
             05:30 PM            16            0                    16              16              119                  135      131             17             148         299
             05:45 PM             6            0                     6               3              116                  119      127             11             138         263
        Total Volume             38            4                    42              29              459                  488      516             61             577        1107
        % App. Total           90.5          9.5                                   5.9             94.1                          89.4           10.6
                  PHF          .594        .333                    .656           .453             .964                 .904     .977           .847             .962        .926
                                                                                   PRECISION
                                                                                   D A T A
N/S: Hancock Street/ Grove Street                                                  INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                  File Name      : 91860 NNN
                                                                                P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E: Grove Street                                                            Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                               Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                    Site Code      : 10865.00
City/State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                              Start Date     : 5/7/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                              Page No        :1


                                                                            Groups Printed- Heavy Vehicles
                                                  Hancock Street                            Grove Street                             Grove Street
                                                   From North                                From East                               From South
                           Start Time              Thru                   Left              Right                        Left        Right               Thru           Int. Total
                          04:00 PM                     0                    0                      0                       1              2                0                   3
                          04:15 PM                     0                    0                      0                       0              0                0                   0
                          04:30 PM                     0                    0                      0                       0              3                1                   4
                          04:45 PM                     0                    0                      0                       2              2                0                   4
                              Total                    0                    0                      0                       3              7                1                  11

                          05:00 PM                     1                    0                      0                       0              0                0                    1
                          05:15 PM                     0                    0                      0                       0              0                0                    0
                          05:30 PM                     1                    0                      0                       1              1                0                    3
                          05:45 PM                     0                    0                      0                       0              0                1                    1
                              Total                    2                    0                      0                       1              1                1                    5

                       Grand Total                    2                     0                      0                      4               8                 2                 16
                         Apprch %                  100                      0                      0                    100              80               20
                          Total %                  12.5                     0                      0                     25              50              12.5




                                          Hancock Street                                    Grove Street                                  Grove Street
                                           From North                                        From East                                    From South
                Start Time         Thru          Left        App. Total          Right            Left              App. Total   Right         Thru       App. Total    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:00 PM
            04:00 PM              0           0                      0               0                1                     1       2             0               2            3
            04:15 PM              0           0                      0               0                0                     0       0             0               0            0
            04:30 PM              0           0                      0               0                0                     0       3             1               4            4
             04:45 PM             0           0                      0               0                2                     2       2             0               2            4
        Total Volume              0           0                      0               0                3                     3       7             1               8           11
         % App. Total             0           0                                      0              100                          87.5          12.5
                  PHF          .000        .000                    .000           .000             .375                 .375     .583          .250             .500        .688
                                                                                    PRECISION
                                                                                    D A T A
N/S: Hancock Street/ Grove Street                                                   INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                    File Name         : 91860 NNN
                                                                                 P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E: Grove Street                                                             Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                       Site Code         : 10865.00
City/State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                 Start Date        : 5/7/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                 Page No           :1


                                                                        Groups Printed- Peds and Bicycles
                                           Hancock Street                               Grove Street                                          Grove Street
                                            From North                                   From East                                            From South
                  Start Time          Thru          Left           Peds        Right            Left                     Peds        Right           Thru        Peds         Int. Total
                 04:00 PM                6              0               0                0                 0                 0            0             1            0                7
                 04:15 PM                0              0               0                0                 0                 0            0             0            0                0
                 04:30 PM                2              0               0                0                 0                 0            0             0            0                2
                 04:45 PM                0              0               0                0                 0                 0            0             0            0                0
                     Total               8              0               0                0                 0                 0            0             1            0                9

                 05:00 PM                0              0               1                0                 0                 0            0             0            0                1
                 05:15 PM                0              0               0                0                 0                 0            0             2            0                2
                 05:30 PM                0              0               2                0                 0                 0            0             0            0                2
                 05:45 PM                0              0               1                0                 0                 0            0             1            0                2
                     Total               0              0               4                0                 0                 0            0             3            0                7

              Grand Total               8               0             4                  0                 0                 0            0            4             0              16
                Apprch %             66.7               0          33.3                  0                 0                 0            0          100             0
                 Total %              50                0           25                   0                 0                 0            0           25             0




                                      Hancock Street                                         Grove Street                                       Grove Street
                                        From North                                            From East                                         From South
           Start Time      Thru        Left      Peds      App. Total       Right            Left      Peds          App. Total   Right        Thru       Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:00 PM
        04:00 PM           6         0         0                   6           0             0             0                 0       0           1          0             1           7
        04:15 PM           0         0         0                   0           0             0             0                 0       0           0          0             0           0
        04:30 PM           2         0         0                   2           0             0             0                 0       0           0          0             0           2
        04:45 PM           0         0         0                   0           0             0             0                 0       0           0          0             0           0
     Total Volume          8         0         0                   8           0             0             0                 0       0           1          0             1           9
     % App. Total        100         0         0                               0             0             0                         0         100          0
              PHF       .333      .000      .000                .333        .000          .000          .000             .000     .000        .250       .000        .250         .321
                                                                                  PRECISION
                                                                                  D A T A
N/S: Hancock Street/ Grove Street                                                 INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                    File Name            : 91860 NNN
                                                                               P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E: Grove Street                                                           Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                              Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                     Site Code            : 10865.00
City/State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                               Start Date           : 5/7/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                               Page No              :1



                                          Hancock Street                                   Grove Street                                  Grove Street
                                           From North                                       From East                                    From South
                Start Time         Thru          Left        App. Total         Right            Left              App. Total    Right        Thru               App. Total    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
            05:00 PM              7            1                     8               1             108                  109       126           15                    141          258
            05:15 PM             10            3                    13               9             116                  125       132           18                    150          288
             05:30 PM            17            0                    17             16              120                  136       132           17                    149          302
             05:45 PM             6            0                     6               3             116                  119       127           12                    139          264
        Total Volume             40            4                    44              29             460                  489       517           62                    579         1112
        % App. Total           90.9          9.1                                   5.9            94.1                           89.3         10.7
                  PHF          .588        .333                  .647            .453             .958                 .899      .979         .861                   .965          .921
                  Cars           38            4                   42               29             459                  488       516           61                    577         1107
               % Cars          95.0         100                  95.5             100             99.8                 99.8      99.8         98.4                   99.7          99.6
      Heavy Vehicles              2            0                    2                0                1                   1          1           1                       2            5
    % Heavy Vehicles            5.0            0                  4.5                0              0.2                 0.2        0.2         1.6                     0.3          0.4

                                                                                   Hancock Street
                                                                               Out      In       Total
                                                                                 90       42      132
                                                                                   1       2         3
                                                                                 91       44      135


                                                                                         38        4
                                                                                           2       0
                                                                                         40        4
                                                                                       Thru    Left




                                                                           Peak Hour Data                                                   Out
                                                                                                                                             521

                                                                                                                                             520
                                                                                                                                                1




                                                                                          North
                                                                                                                                Right




                                                                                                                                            Grove Street




                                                                          Peak Hour Begins at 05:00 PM
                                                                                                                                   29

                                                                                                                                   29
                                                                                                                                    0




                                                                                                                                                In
                                                                                                                                                 489

                                                                                                                                                 488




                                                                          Cars
                                                                                                                                Left




                                                                                                                                                   1
                                                                                                                                 460

                                                                                                                                 459




                                                                          Heavy Vehicles
                                                                                                                                    1




                                                                                                                                                         Total
                                                                                                                                                         1010

                                                                                                                                                         1008
                                                                                                                                                             2




                                                                                       Thru Right
                                                                                         61   516
                                                                                           1    1
                                                                                         62   517


                                                                                497         577     1074
                                                                                   3          2         5
                                                                                500         579     1079
                                                                               Out         In       Total
                                                                                       Grove Street
                                                                                        PRECISION
                                                                                        D A T A
N/S: Concord Street/ Lower Falls Liquors                                                INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                     File Name         : 91860 A
                                                                                    P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Washington Street (Route 16)                                              Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                   Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                            Site Code         : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                      Start Date        : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                      Page No           :1


                                                                            Groups Printed- Cars - Heavy Vehicles
                                   Concord Street                  Washington Street (Route 16)            Lower Falls Liquors                Washington Street (Route 16)
                                    From North                             From East                           From South                             From West
             Start Time       Right       Thru          Left        Right        Thru         Left      Right        Thru             Left     Right        Thru         Left        Int. Total
           07:00 AM            32             1         19              4        129               0              0          0          0            0           179        63           427
           07:15 AM            37             0         22             11        174               1              0          0          0            0           191        86           522
           07:30 AM            46             0         19              8        166               0              0          0          0            0           179        91           509
           07:45 AM            61             0         12             15        170               0              0          0          0            3           185       118           564
               Total          176             1         72             38        639               1              0          0          0            3           734       358          2022

           08:00 AM            50             0         27             15        196               0              1          0          0            1           198       117           605
           08:15 AM            42             1         31             11        180               3              1          0          1            1           206        92           569
           08:30 AM            55             1         25             19        179               3              2          0          1            1           200        74           560
           08:45 AM            46             1         23             18        211               6              1          1          3            6           187        84           587
               Total          193             3        106             63        766              12              5          1          5            9           791       367          2321

      Grand Total             369             4       178            101        1405             13             5             1        5         12         1525           725          4343
        Apprch %               67           0.7       32.3            6.6        92.5           0.9          45.5           9.1     45.5         0.5         67.4          32.1
          Total %              8.5          0.1        4.1            2.3        32.4           0.3           0.1             0      0.1         0.3         35.1          16.7
            Cars              364             4       172            100        1345             13             5             1        5         11         1496           716          4232
          % Cars              98.6         100        96.6            99         95.7           100          100           100      100         91.7         98.1          98.8          97.4
   Heavy Vehicles                5            0          6              1          60             0             0             0        0           1          29              9          111
 % Heavy Vehicles              1.4            0        3.4              1         4.3             0             0             0        0         8.3          1.9           1.2           2.6




                              Concord Street                     Washington Street (Route 16)                  Lower Falls Liquors              Washington Street (Route 16)
                               From North                                From East                                From South                            From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total        Right   Thru       Left App. Total        Right   Thru       Left App. Total   Right   Thru       Left App. Total     Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
    08:00 AM        50       0      27       77      15                 196         0         211           1          0       0         1       1        198       117       316       605
     08:15 AM       42       1      31        74      11                180         3         194           1          0       1         2       1        206         92      299       569
     08:30 AM       55       1       25      81      19                 179         3         201           2          0       1         3       1        200        74       275       560
     08:45 AM       46       1       23       70      18                211         6         235           1          1       3         5       6        187         84      277       587
 Total Volume      193       3     106      302       63                766        12         841           5          1       5        11       9        791       367      1167      2321
  % App. Total    63.9       1    35.1               7.5               91.1       1.4                    45.5        9.1    45.5               0.8       67.8      31.4
           PHF    .877    .750    .855     .932    .829                .908     .500          .895       .625      .250     .417      .550    .375       .960      .784       .923      .959
           Cars    193       3     102      298       63                732       12           807          5          1       5        11       8        777       362      1147      2263
       % Cars      100     100    96.2     98.7     100                95.6      100          96.0        100       100      100       100    88.9       98.2      98.6       98.3      97.5
 Heavy Vehicles      0       0        4        4       0                  34        0           34          0          0       0         0       1          14         5        20        58
 % Heavy Vehicles    0       0      3.8      1.3       0                 4.4        0           4.0         0          0       0         0    11.1         1.8       1.4       1.7       2.5
                                                                                        PRECISION
                                                                                        D A T A
N/S: Concord Street/ Lower Falls Liquors                                                INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                    File Name        : 91860 A
                                                                                    P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Washington Street (Route 16)                                              Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                   Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                           Site Code        : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                     Start Date       : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                     Page No          :1


                                                                                     Groups Printed- Cars
                                   Concord Street                  Washington Street (Route 16)            Lower Falls Liquors                Washington Street (Route 16)
                                    From North                             From East                          From South                              From West
             Start Time       Right       Thru          Left        Right        Thru         Left      Right        Thru             Left     Right        Thru         Left      Int. Total
           07:00 AM            31             1         17              4        127               0              0         0           0            0          175       63           418
           07:15 AM            37             0         22             11        166               1              0         0           0            0          188       85           510
           07:30 AM            45             0         19              7        156               0              0         0           0            0          175       90           492
           07:45 AM            58             0         12             15        164               0              0         0           0            3          181      116           549
               Total          171             1         70             37        613               1              0         0           0            3          719      354          1969

           08:00 AM            50             0         26             15        189               0              1         0           0            1          194      116           592
           08:15 AM            42             1         29             11        172               3              1         0           1            1          203       91           555
           08:30 AM            55             1         24             19        172               3              2         0           1            1          196       72           546
           08:45 AM            46             1         23             18        199               6              1         1           3            5          184       83           570
               Total          193             3        102             63        732              12              5         1           5            8          777      362          2263

        Grand Total           364            4        172            100        1345             13             5           1          5         11         1496         716          4232
          Apprch %            67.4         0.7        31.9            6.9        92.2            0.9         45.5         9.1       45.5         0.5         67.3        32.2
           Total %             8.6         0.1         4.1            2.4        31.8            0.3          0.1           0        0.1         0.3         35.3        16.9




                              Concord Street                     Washington Street (Route 16)                  Lower Falls Liquors              Washington Street (Route 16)
                               From North                                From East                                From South                            From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total        Right   Thru       Left App. Total        Right   Thru       Left App. Total   Right   Thru       Left App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
    08:00 AM       50        0      26       76      15                 189        0          204           1         0      0           1       1        194      116      311       592
    08:15 AM       42        1      29       72      11                 172        3          186           1         0      1           2       1        203       91      295       555
    08:30 AM       55        1      24       80      19                 172        3          194           2         0      1           3       1        196       72      269       546
    08:45 AM       46        1      23       70      18                 199        6          223           1         1      3           5       5        184       83      272       570
 Total Volume     193        3     102      298      63                 732       12          807           5         1      5          11       8        777      362     1147      2263
 % App. Total    64.8        1    34.2              7.8                90.7      1.5                     45.5       9.1   45.5                 0.7       67.7     31.6
          PHF    .877     .750    .879     .931    .829                .920     .500          .905       .625      .250   .417        .550    .400       .957     .780     .922       .956
                                                                                          PRECISION
                                                                                          D A T A
N/S: Concord Street/ Lower Falls Liquors                                                  INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                    File Name        : 91860 A
                                                                                      P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Washington Street (Route 16)                                                Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                     Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                             Site Code        : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                       Start Date       : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                       Page No          :1


                                                                                 Groups Printed- Heavy Vehicles
                                   Concord Street                    Washington Street (Route 16)           Lower Falls Liquors                 Washington Street (Route 16)
                                    From North                               From East                          From South                              From West
             Start Time       Right       Thru          Left          Right        Thru         Left     Right        Thru              Left     Right        Thru         Left        Int. Total
           07:00 AM              1            0              2            0           2              0              0         0           0            0           4         0                9
           07:15 AM              0            0              0            0           8              0              0         0           0            0           3         1               12
           07:30 AM              1            0              0            1          10              0              0         0           0            0           4         1               17
           07:45 AM              3            0              0            0           6              0              0         0           0            0           4         2               15
               Total             5            0              2            1          26              0              0         0           0            0          15         4               53

           08:00 AM              0            0              1            0           7              0              0         0           0            0           4         1               13
           08:15 AM              0            0              2            0           8              0              0         0           0            0           3         1               14
           08:30 AM              0            0              1            0           7              0              0         0           0            0           4         2               14
           08:45 AM              0            0              0            0          12              0              0         0           0            1           3         1               17
               Total             0            0              4            0          34              0              0         0           0            1          14         5               58

        Grand Total              5            0          6                1         60               0              0         0           0          1          29           9             111
          Apprch %            45.5            0       54.5              1.6        98.4              0              0         0           0        2.6        74.4        23.1
           Total %             4.5            0        5.4              0.9        54.1              0              0         0           0        0.9        26.1         8.1




                              Concord Street                       Washington Street (Route 16)                  Lower Falls Liquors              Washington Street (Route 16)
                               From North                                  From East                                From South                            From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total          Right   Thru       Left App. Total        Right   Thru       Left App. Total   Right   Thru       Left App. Total     Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
    07:30 AM         1       0       0        1       1                    10        0            11          0         0      0           0       0          4       1            5         17
    07:45 AM         3       0       0        3       0                     6        0             6          0         0      0           0       0          4       2            6         15
    08:00 AM         0       0       1        1       0                     7        0             7          0         0      0           0       0          4       1            5         13
    08:15 AM         0       0       2        2       0                     8        0             8          0         0      0           0       0          3       1            4         14
 Total Volume        4       0       3        7       1                    31        0            32          0         0      0           0       0         15       5           20         59
 % App. Total    57.1        0    42.9              3.1                  96.9        0                        0         0      0                   0         75      25
          PHF    .333     .000    .375     .583    .250                  .775     .000          .727       .000      .000   .000        .000    .000       .938    .625      .833         .868
                                                                                   PRECISION
                                                                                   D A T A
N/S: Concord Street/ Lower Falls Liquors                                           INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                               File Name           : 91860 A
                                                                                P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Washington Street (Route 16)                                          Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                               Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                 Site Code           : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                           Start Date          : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                           Page No             :1


                                                                       Groups Printed- Peds and Bicycles
                             Concord Street                Washington Street (Route 16)            Lower Falls Liquors                              Washington Street (Route 16)
                              From North                           From East                           From South                                           From West
       Start Time    Right    Thru      Left     Peds     Right   Thru        Left   Peds    Right     Thru       Left                Peds         Right   Thru        Left   Peds             Int. Total
      07:00 AM           1        0        0        0        0         0           0          0           0          0         0           1          0           2        0          0                4
      07:15 AM           0        0        0        0        0         4           0          1           0          0         0           0          0           0        0          1                6
      07:30 AM           1        0        2        0        0         0           0          1           0          0         0           0          0           0        0          1                5
      07:45 AM           0        0        1        1        0         0           0          0           0          0         0           2          0           1        0          2                7
          Total          2        0        3        1        0         4           0          2           0          0         0           3          0           3        0          4               22

      08:00 AM           2        0        1        1        0         0           0          0           0          0         0          1           0           0        1          2                8
      08:15 AM           0        0        0        0        0         1           0          1           0          0         0          4           0           0        0          2                8
      08:30 AM           1        0        0        0        0         2           0          0           0          0         0          2           0           1        0          1                7
      08:45 AM           0        0        0        0        0         0           0          1           0          0         0          5           0           4        0          2               12
          Total          3        0        1        1        0         3           0          2           0          0         0         12           0           5        1          7               35

   Grand Total          5         0       4         2        0        7            0         4            0          0         0       15             0           8         1        11               57
     Apprch %        45.5         0    36.4      18.2        0     63.6            0      36.4            0          0         0      100             0          40         5        55
      Total %         8.8         0       7       3.5        0     12.3            0         7            0          0         0      26.3            0          14       1.8       19.3




                           Concord Street                  Washington Street (Route 16)                        Lower Falls Liquors                    Washington Street (Route 16)
                             From North                            From East                                       From South                                 From West
   Start Time Right Thru        Left Peds App. Total Right Thru       Left Peds App. Total        Right       Thru    Left Peds      App. Total   Right  Thru    Left Peds App. Total           Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
  08:00 AM      2       0     1     1        4     0  0    0    0                            0        0         0        0      1           1        0      0         1         2          3           8
  08:15 AM      0       0     0     0        0     0  1    0    1                            2        0         0        0      4           4        0      0         0         2          2           8
  08:30 AM      1       0     0     0        1     0  2
  08:45 AM      0       0     0     0        0     0  0    0    1                            1       0    0            0        5          5         0       4       0    2             6            12
 Total Volume   3       0     1     1        5     0  3    0    2                            5       0    0            0       12         12         0       5       1    7            13            35
 % App. Total  60       0    20    20              0 60    0   40                                    0    0            0      100                    0    38.5     7.7 53.8
        PHF .375 .000 .250 .250          .313 .000 .375 .000 .500                        .625     .000 .000         .000     .600      .600       .000    .313    .250 .875          .542         .729
                                                                                                      PRECISION
                                                                                                      D A T A
N/S: Concord Street/ Lower Falls Liquors                                                              INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                                 File Name           : 91860 A
                                                                                                  P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Washington Street (Route 16)                                                            Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                                 Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                                      Site Code           : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                                                Start Date          : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                                                Page No             :1



                              Concord Street                                   Washington Street (Route 16)                  Lower Falls Liquors                 Washington Street (Route 16)
                               From North                                              From East                                From South                               From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total                      Right   Thru       Left App. Total        Right   Thru       Left App. Total      Right   Thru       Left App. Total                Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
    08:00 AM        50       0      27       77      15                               196         0         211           1          0      0          1          1           198                 117     316       605
     08:15 AM       42       1      31        74      11                              180         3         194           1          0      1          2          1           206                   92    299       569
     08:30 AM       55       1       25      81      19                               179         3         201           2          0      1          3          1           200                  74     275       560
     08:45 AM       46       1       23       70      18                              211         6         235           1          1      3          5          6           187                   84    277       587
 Total Volume      193       3     106      302       63                              766        12         841           5          1      5         11          9           791                 367    1167      2321
  % App. Total    63.9       1    35.1               7.5                             91.1       1.4                    45.5        9.1   45.5                   0.8          67.8                31.4
           PHF    .877    .750    .855     .932    .829                              .908     .500          .895       .625      .250    .417       .550       .375          .960                .784     .923      .959
           Cars    193       3     102      298       63                              732       12           807          5          1      5         11          8           777                 362    1147      2263
       % Cars      100     100    96.2     98.7     100                              95.6      100          96.0        100       100     100        100       88.9          98.2                98.6     98.3      97.5
 Heavy Vehicles      0       0        4        4       0                                34        0           34          0          0      0          0          1             14                   5      20        58
 % Heavy Vehicles    0       0      3.8      1.3       0                               4.4        0           4.0         0          0      0          0       11.1            1.8                 1.4     1.7       2.5

                                                                                                      Concord Street
                                                                                                  Out      In        Total
                                                                                                   426      298       724
                                                                                                      5       4          9
                                                                                                   431      302       733


                                                                                                        193     3      102
                                                                                                          0     0         4
                                                                                                        193     3      106
                                                                                                      Right Thru      Left




                                                                                              Peak Hour Data
                                 Washington Street (Route 16)




                                                                                                                                                                  Washington Street (Route 16)
                                                        2077
                                                          54
                                                        2131
                                                       Total




                                                                                                                                                                    Out
                                                                 362
                                                                    5
                                                                 367




                                                                                                                                                                     902

                                                                                                                                                                     884
                                                                                                                                                  Right Thru
                                                                Left




                                                                                                                                                                      18




                                                                                                             North
                                                                                                                                                     63

                                                                                                                                                     63
                                                                                                                                                      0
                                             1147

                                             1167
                                                 20




                                                                                             Peak Hour Begins at 08:00 AM
                                                                       777
                                                                        14
                                                                       791
                                                                Right Thru
                                               In




                                                                                                                                                                              In
                                                                                                                                                         766

                                                                                                                                                         732


                                                                                                                                                                               841

                                                                                                                                                                               807
                                                                                                                                                          34




                                                                                                                                                                                34




                                                                                             Cars
                                                                                             Heavy Vehicles
                                                                    8
                                                                    1
                                                                    9




                                                                                                                                                  Left
                                     930
                                      34
                                     964
                                    Out




                                                                                                                                                                                       Total
                                                                                                                                                    12

                                                                                                                                                    12


                                                                                                                                                                                       1743

                                                                                                                                                                                       1691
                                                                                                                                                      0




                                                                                                                                                                                          52




                                                                                                      Left Thru Right
                                                                                                          5    1    5
                                                                                                          0    0    0
                                                                                                          5    1    5


                                                                                                    23       11        34
                                                                                                      1       0         1
                                                                                                    24       11        35
                                                                                                  Out      In       Total
                                                                                                   Lower Falls Liquors
                                                                                        PRECISION
                                                                                        D A T A
N/S: Concord Street/ Lower Falls Liquors                                                INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                   File Name         : 91860 AA
                                                                                    P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Washington Street (Route 16)                                              Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                   Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                          Site Code         : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                    Start Date        : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                    Page No           :1


                                                                            Groups Printed- Cars - Heavy Vehicles
                                   Concord Street                  Washington Street (Route 16)            Lower Falls Liquors                Washington Street (Route 16)
                                    From North                             From East                           From South                             From West
             Start Time       Right       Thru          Left        Right        Thru         Left      Right        Thru             Left     Right        Thru         Left      Int. Total
           04:00 PM            76             0         39             20        183               5             4          1          2           3           177        54           564
           04:15 PM            82             4         46             10        200               2             1          1          2           0           149        45           542
           04:30 PM            60             0         36             18        218               5             8          0          6           8           171        53           583
           04:45 PM            82             2         29             13        216               1             2          4          7           1           168        41           566
               Total          300             6        150             61        817              13            15          6         17          12           665       193          2255

           05:00 PM            89             1         29             10        220               8             7          1          4           6           170        38           583
           05:15 PM            72             4         31              9        190               6             1          1          8           6           172        57           557
           05:30 PM            61             3         32              7        171               2             7          0          6           7           179        49           524
           05:45 PM            57             1         25             10        198               9             8          1          9           6           177        53           554
               Total          279             9        117             36        779              25            23          3         27          25           698       197          2218

      Grand Total             579           15        267             97        1596             38            38            9        44         37        1363          390          4473
        Apprch %              67.2          1.7         31            5.6        92.2           2.2          41.8          9.9      48.4         2.1        76.1         21.8
          Total %             12.9          0.3          6            2.2        35.7           0.8           0.8          0.2         1         0.8        30.5          8.7
            Cars              577            15       263             96        1582             38            38            9        44         37        1344          387          4430
          % Cars              99.7         100        98.5            99         99.1           100          100          100       100         100         98.6         99.2           99
   Heavy Vehicles                2            0          4              1          14             0             0            0         0           0          19            3           43
 % Heavy Vehicles              0.3            0        1.5              1         0.9             0             0            0         0           0         1.4          0.8            1




                              Concord Street                     Washington Street (Route 16)                  Lower Falls Liquors              Washington Street (Route 16)
                               From North                                From East                                From South                            From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total        Right   Thru       Left App. Total        Right   Thru       Left App. Total   Right   Thru       Left App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:30 PM
    04:30 PM        60        0     36        96     18                 218         5         241           8         0       6         14       8      171         53      232       583
     04:45 PM       82        2      29     113       13                216         1         230           2         4       7         13       1      168         41      210       566
     05:00 PM       89        1      29     119       10                220         8         238           7         1       4         12       6      170         38      214       583
     05:15 PM       72        4      31     107        9                190         6         205           1         1       8         10       6      172        57       235       557
 Total Volume      303        7    125      435       50                844        20         914          18         6      25         49      21      681       189       891      2289
  % App. Total    69.7      1.6   28.7               5.5               92.3       2.2                    36.7      12.2      51                2.4     76.4      21.2
           PHF    .851    .438    .868     .914    .694                .959     .625          .948       .563      .375    .781       .875    .656     .990      .829      .948       .982
           Cars    303        7    124      434       50                838       20           908         18         6      25         49      21      673       187       881      2272
       % Cars      100     100    99.2     99.8     100                99.3      100          99.3        100       100     100        100     100     98.8      98.9      98.9       99.3
 Heavy Vehicles      0        0       1        1       0                   6        0             6         0         0       0          0       0         8         2        10        17
 % Heavy Vehicles    0        0     0.8      0.2       0                 0.7        0           0.7         0         0       0          0       0       1.2       1.1       1.1       0.7
                                                                                        PRECISION
                                                                                        D A T A
N/S: Concord Street/ Lower Falls Liquors                                                INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                   File Name         : 91860 AA
                                                                                    P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Washington Street (Route 16)                                              Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                   Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                          Site Code         : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                    Start Date        : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                    Page No           :1


                                                                                     Groups Printed- Cars
                                   Concord Street                  Washington Street (Route 16)            Lower Falls Liquors                Washington Street (Route 16)
                                    From North                             From East                          From South                              From West
             Start Time       Right       Thru          Left        Right        Thru         Left      Right        Thru             Left     Right        Thru         Left      Int. Total
           04:00 PM            75             0         38             19        179               5             4          1          2           3          173        53            552
           04:15 PM            82             4         45             10        199               2             1          1          2           0          147        45            538
           04:30 PM            60             0         36             18        218               5             8          0          6           8          169        52            580
           04:45 PM            82             2         29             13        215               1             2          4          7           1          165        41            562
               Total          299             6        148             60        811              13            15          6         17          12          654       191           2232

           05:00 PM            89             1         29             10        219               8             7          1          4           6          168        37            579
           05:15 PM            72             4         30              9        186               6             1          1          8           6          171        57            551
           05:30 PM            60             3         31              7        169               2             7          0          6           7          175        49            516
           05:45 PM            57             1         25             10        197               9             8          1          9           6          176        53            552
               Total          278             9        115             36        771              25            23          3         27          25          690       196           2198

        Grand Total           577           15        263             96        1582             38            38           9         44         37        1344        387            4430
          Apprch %            67.5         1.8        30.8            5.6        92.2            2.2         41.8         9.9       48.4         2.1          76       21.9
           Total %              13         0.3         5.9            2.2        35.7            0.9          0.9         0.2          1         0.8        30.3        8.7




                              Concord Street                     Washington Street (Route 16)                  Lower Falls Liquors              Washington Street (Route 16)
                               From North                                From East                                From South                            From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total        Right   Thru       Left App. Total        Right   Thru       Left App. Total   Right   Thru       Left App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:30 PM
    04:30 PM       60        0      36       96      18                 218        5          241           8         0      6          14       8      169       52        229       580
    04:45 PM       82        2      29      113      13                 215        1          229           2         4      7          13       1      165       41        207       562
    05:00 PM       89        1      29      119      10                 219        8          237           7         1      4          12       6      168       37        211       579
    05:15 PM       72        4      30      106       9                 186        6          201           1         1      8          10       6      171       57        234       551
 Total Volume     303        7     124      434      50                 838       20          908          18         6     25          49      21      673      187        881      2272
 % App. Total    69.8      1.6    28.6              5.5                92.3      2.2                     36.7      12.2     51                 2.4     76.4     21.2
          PHF    .851     .438    .861     .912    .694                .957     .625          .942       .563      .375   .781        .875    .656     .984     .820       .941       .979
                                                                                           PRECISION
                                                                                           D A T A
N/S: Concord Street/ Lower Falls Liquors                                                   INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                   File Name        : 91860 AA
                                                                                      P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Washington Street (Route 16)                                                Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                     Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                             Site Code        : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                       Start Date       : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                       Page No          :1


                                                                                 Groups Printed- Heavy Vehicles
                                   Concord Street                    Washington Street (Route 16)           Lower Falls Liquors                 Washington Street (Route 16)
                                    From North                               From East                          From South                              From West
             Start Time       Right       Thru          Left          Right        Thru         Left     Right        Thru              Left     Right        Thru         Left        Int. Total
           04:00 PM              1            0              1            1            4             0              0         0           0            0           4         1               12
           04:15 PM              0            0              1            0            1             0              0         0           0            0           2         0                4
           04:30 PM              0            0              0            0            0             0              0         0           0            0           2         1                3
           04:45 PM              0            0              0            0            1             0              0         0           0            0           3         0                4
               Total             1            0              2            1            6             0              0         0           0            0          11         2               23

           05:00 PM              0            0              0            0            1             0              0         0           0            0           2         1                4
           05:15 PM              0            0              1            0            4             0              0         0           0            0           1         0                6
           05:30 PM              1            0              1            0            2             0              0         0           0            0           4         0                8
           05:45 PM              0            0              0            0            1             0              0         0           0            0           1         0                2
               Total             1            0              2            0            8             0              0         0           0            0           8         1               20

        Grand Total              2            0          4                1         14               0              0         0           0            0       19            3               43
          Apprch %            33.3            0       66.7              6.7        93.3              0              0         0           0            0      86.4        13.6
           Total %             4.7            0        9.3              2.3        32.6              0              0         0           0            0      44.2           7




                              Concord Street                       Washington Street (Route 16)                  Lower Falls Liquors              Washington Street (Route 16)
                               From North                                  From East                                From South                            From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total          Right   Thru       Left App. Total        Right   Thru       Left App. Total   Right   Thru       Left App. Total     Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:00 PM
    04:00 PM         1       0       1        2       1                     4        0              5         0         0      0           0       0          4       1            5         12
    04:15 PM         0       0       1        1       0                     1        0              1         0         0      0           0       0          2       0            2          4
    04:30 PM         0       0       0        0       0                     0        0              0         0         0      0           0       0          2       1            3          3
    04:45 PM         0       0       0        0       0                     1        0              1         0         0      0           0       0          3       0            3          4
 Total Volume        1       0       2        3       1                     6        0              7         0         0      0           0       0         11       2           13         23
 % App. Total    33.3        0    66.7             14.3                  85.7        0                        0         0      0                   0       84.6    15.4
          PHF    .250     .000    .500     .375    .250                  .375     .000          .350       .000      .000   .000        .000    .000       .688    .500      .650         .479
                                                                                   PRECISION
                                                                                   D A T A
N/S: Concord Street/ Lower Falls Liquors                                           INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                             File Name       : 91860 AA
                                                                                P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Washington Street (Route 16)                                          Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                               Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                               Site Code       : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                         Start Date      : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                         Page No         :1


                                                                       Groups Printed- Peds and Bicycles
                             Concord Street                Washington Street (Route 16)            Lower Falls Liquors                              Washington Street (Route 16)
                              From North                           From East                           From South                                           From West
       Start Time    Right    Thru      Left     Peds     Right   Thru        Left   Peds    Right     Thru       Left                Peds         Right   Thru        Left   Peds      Int. Total
      04:00 PM           0        0        0        0        0         0           0          0           0          0         0          7           0        1        0        1              9
      04:15 PM           0        0        0        2        0         1           0          0           0          0         0          0           0        1        0        1              5
      04:30 PM           0        0        0        1        0         0           0          0           0          0         0          2           0        0        1        1              5
      04:45 PM           0        0        0        0        0         0           0          0           0          0         0          1           0        0        0        2              3
          Total          0        0        0        3        0         1           0          0           0          0         0         10           0        2        1        5             22

      05:00 PM           0        0        0        0        0         1           0          0           0          0         0          4           0        0        0        1              6
      05:15 PM           2        0        0        0        0         0           0          0           0          0         0          2           0        0        0        3              7
      05:30 PM           0        0        1        1        0         1           0          0           0          0         0          6           0        2        0        2             13
      05:45 PM           0        0        0        0        0         2           0          0           0          0         0          0           0        1        0        3              6
          Total          2        0        1        1        0         4           0          0           0          0         0         12           0        3        0        9             32

   Grand Total          2         0       1         4        0         5           0          0           0          0         0       22             0        5        1       14             54
     Apprch %        28.6         0    14.3      57.1        0      100            0          0           0          0         0      100             0      25         5      70
      Total %         3.7         0     1.9       7.4        0       9.3           0          0           0          0         0      40.7            0      9.3      1.9     25.9




                           Concord Street                  Washington Street (Route 16)                        Lower Falls Liquors                    Washington Street (Route 16)
                             From North                            From East                                       From South                                 From West
   Start Time Right Thru        Left Peds App. Total Right Thru       Left Peds App. Total        Right       Thru    Left Peds      App. Total   Right  Thru    Left Peds App. Total    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
  05:00 PM      0       0     0     0        0     0   1   0    0                            1   0    0    0    4                          4   0    0    0    1                    1           6
  05:15 PM      2       0     0     0        2     0   0   0    0                            0   0    0    0    2                          2   0    0    0    3                    3           7
  05:30 PM      0       0     1     1        2     0   1   0    0                            1   0    0    0    6                          6   0    2    0    2                    4          13
  05:45 PM      0       0     0     0        0     0   2                                     2   0    0    0    0                          0   0    1    0    3                    4           6
 Total Volume   2       0     1     1        4     0   4   0    0                            4   0    0    0   12                         12   0    3    0    9                   12          32
 % App. Total  50       0    25    25              0 100   0    0                                0    0    0 100                               0   25    0   75
        PHF .250 .000 .250 .250          .500 .000 .500 .000 .000                        .500 .000 .000 .000 .500                      .500 .000 .375 .000 .750                 .750       .615
                                                                                                       PRECISION
                                                                                                       D A T A
N/S: Concord Street/ Lower Falls Liquors                                                               INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                                  File Name          : 91860 AA
                                                                                                   P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Washington Street (Route 16)                                                             Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                                  Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                                        Site Code          : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                                                  Start Date         : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                                                  Page No            :1



                              Concord Street                                    Washington Street (Route 16)                  Lower Falls Liquors                  Washington Street (Route 16)
                               From North                                               From East                                From South                                From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total                       Right   Thru       Left App. Total        Right   Thru       Left App. Total       Right   Thru       Left App. Total                Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:30 PM
    04:30 PM        60        0     36        96     18                                218         5         241           8         0      6          14           8           171                   53   232        583
     04:45 PM       82        2      29     113       13                               216         1         230           2         4      7          13           1           168                   41   210        566
     05:00 PM       89        1      29     119       10                               220         8         238           7         1      4          12           6           170                   38   214        583
     05:15 PM       72        4      31     107        9                               190         6         205           1         1      8          10           6           172                  57    235        557
 Total Volume      303        7    125      435       50                               844        20         914          18         6     25          49          21           681                 189    891       2289
  % App. Total    69.7      1.6   28.7               5.5                              92.3       2.2                    36.7      12.2     51                     2.4          76.4                21.2
           PHF    .851    .438    .868     .914    .694                               .959     .625          .948       .563      .375   .781        .875        .656          .990                .829    .948       .982
           Cars    303        7    124      434       50                               838       20           908         18         6     25          49          21           673                 187     881      2272
       % Cars      100     100    99.2     99.8     100                               99.3      100          99.3        100       100    100         100         100          98.8                98.9    98.9       99.3
 Heavy Vehicles      0        0       1        1       0                                  6        0             6         0         0      0           0           0              8                   2      10        17
 % Heavy Vehicles    0        0     0.8      0.2       0                                0.7        0           0.7         0         0      0           0           0            1.2                 1.1     1.1       0.7

                                                                                                       Concord Street
                                                                                                   Out      In        Total
                                                                                                    243      434       677
                                                                                                       2       1          3
                                                                                                    245      435       680


                                                                                                         303     7      124
                                                                                                           0     0         1
                                                                                                         303     7      125
                                                                                                       Right Thru      Left




                                                                                               Peak Hour Data
                                 Washington Street (Route 16)




                                                                                                                                                                    Washington Street (Route 16)
                                                        2047
                                                          16
                                                        2063
                                                       Total




                                                                                                                                                                      Out
                                                                 187
                                                                    2
                                                                 189




                                                                                                                                                                       824

                                                                                                                                                                       815
                                                                                                                                                   Right Thru
                                                                Left




                                                                                                                                                                          9




                                                                                                              North
                                                                                                                                                      50

                                                                                                                                                      50
                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                881
                                                 10
                                                891




                                                                                              Peak Hour Begins at 04:30 PM
                                                                       673
                                                                          8
                                                                       681
                                                                Right Thru
                                               In




                                                                                                                                                                                In
                                                                                                                                                          844

                                                                                                                                                          838


                                                                                                                                                                                 914

                                                                                                                                                                                 908




                                                                                              Cars
                                                                                                                                                             6




                                                                                                                                                                                   6




                                                                                              Heavy Vehicles
                                                                   21
                                                                    0
                                                                   21
                                    1166

                                    1172




                                                                                                                                                   Left
                                        6
                                    Out




                                                                                                                                                                                         Total
                                                                                                                                                     20

                                                                                                                                                     20


                                                                                                                                                                                         1738

                                                                                                                                                                                         1723
                                                                                                                                                       0




                                                                                                                                                                                            15




                                                                                                       Left Thru Right
                                                                                                         25     6   18
                                                                                                           0    0    0
                                                                                                         25     6   18


                                                                                                     48       49        97
                                                                                                       0       0         0
                                                                                                     48       49        97
                                                                                                   Out      In       Total
                                                                                                    Lower Falls Liquors
                                                                                          PRECISION
                                                                                          D A T A
N/S: Grove Street/ Starbucks Driveway                                                     INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                   File Name         : 91860 B
                                                                                      P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Washington Street (Route 16)                                                Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                     Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                            Site Code         : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                      Start Date        : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                      Page No           :1


                                                                              Groups Printed- Cars - Heavy Vehicles
                                    Grove Street                     Washington Street (Route 16)           Starbucks Driveway                  Washington Street (Route 16)
                                    From North                               From East                           From South                             From West
             Start Time       Right       Thru          Left          Right        Thru         Left      Right       Thru              Left     Right        Thru         Left      Int. Total
           07:00 AM              0            0              0            7        132              10            10          2          5          11           176         1           354
           07:15 AM              0            0              0            3        179               6            14          0          6           6           200         5           419
           07:30 AM              0            0              0           11        173               7            14          0          2          13           189         1           410
           07:45 AM              0            0              0           17        190               5             5          1          2           4           187         4           415
               Total             0            0              0           38        674              28            43          3         15          34           752        11          1598

           08:00 AM              0            0              1           12        205              16             9          0          4           2           218         9           476
           08:15 AM              1            0              0            8        206               5             8          0          4           8           217         7           464
           08:30 AM              1            0              0           13        198               6             9          1          2           5           216         3           454
           08:45 AM              1            0              0           14        243               9            10          0          2           5           202        12           498
               Total             3            0              1           47        852              36            36          1         12          20           853        31          1892

      Grand Total                3            0          1               85       1526             64            79            4        27         54        1605          42           3490
        Apprch %               75             0         25              5.1        91.1           3.8          71.8          3.6      24.5         3.2        94.4         2.5
          Total %              0.1            0          0              2.4        43.7           1.8           2.3          0.1       0.8         1.5         46          1.2
            Cars                 2            0          1               76       1456             64            79            4        27         54        1560           41          3364
          % Cars              66.7            0        100             89.4        95.4           100          100          100       100         100         97.2        97.6           96.4
   Heavy Vehicles                1            0          0                9          70             0             0            0         0           0          45           1           126
 % Heavy Vehicles             33.3            0          0             10.6         4.6             0             0            0         0           0         2.8         2.4            3.6




                               Grove Street                        Washington Street (Route 16)                  Starbucks Driveway               Washington Street (Route 16)
                               From North                                  From East                                 From South                           From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total          Right   Thru       Left App. Total        Right    Thru      Left App. Total   Right   Thru       Left App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
    08:00 AM         0       0       1        1      12                   205       16          233           9         0       4         13       2      218         9       229       476
     08:15 AM        1       0       0        1       8                   206         5         219           8         0       4         12       8      217         7       232       464
     08:30 AM        1       0       0        1      13                   198         6         217           9         1       2         12       5      216         3       224       454
     08:45 AM        1       0       0        1      14                   243         9         266          10         0       2         12       5      202        12       219       498
 Total Volume        3       0       1        4      47                   852        36         935          36         1      12         49      20      853        31       904      1892
  % App. Total      75       0      25                5                  91.1       3.9                    73.5         2    24.5                2.2     94.4       3.4
           PHF    .750    .000    .250    1.000    .839                  .877     .563          .879       .900      .250    .750       .942    .625     .978      .646      .974       .950
           Cars      2       0       1        3      43                   813       36           892         36         1      12         49      20      829        30       879      1823
       % Cars     66.7       0     100     75.0    91.5                  95.4      100          95.4        100       100     100        100     100     97.2      96.8      97.2       96.4
 Heavy Vehicles      1       0       0        1       4                     39        0           43          0         0       0          0       0        24        1        25         69
 % Heavy Vehicles 33.3       0       0     25.0     8.5                    4.6        0           4.6         0         0       0          0       0       2.8      3.2        2.8       3.6
                                                                                          PRECISION
                                                                                          D A T A
N/S: Grove Street/ Starbucks Driveway                                                     INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                   File Name         : 91860 B
                                                                                      P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Washington Street (Route 16)                                                Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                     Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                            Site Code         : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                      Start Date        : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                      Page No           :1


                                                                                       Groups Printed- Cars
                                    Grove Street                     Washington Street (Route 16)           Starbucks Driveway                  Washington Street (Route 16)
                                    From North                               From East                          From South                              From West
             Start Time       Right       Thru          Left          Right        Thru         Left      Right      Thru               Left     Right        Thru         Left      Int. Total
           07:00 AM              0            0              0            6        130              10            10          2          5          11          170          1           345
           07:15 AM              0            0              0            3        170               6            14          0          6           6          196          5           406
           07:30 AM              0            0              0           10        161               7            14          0          2          13          184          1           392
           07:45 AM              0            0              0           14        182               5             5          1          2           4          181          4           398
               Total             0            0              0           33        643              28            43          3         15          34          731         11          1541

           08:00 AM              0            0              1           11        197              16             9          0          4           2          211          9           460
           08:15 AM              0            0              0            6        196               5             8          0          4           8          211          6           444
           08:30 AM              1            0              0           13        190               6             9          1          2           5          210          3           440
           08:45 AM              1            0              0           13        230               9            10          0          2           5          197         12           479
               Total             2            0              1           43        813              36            36          1         12          20          829         30          1823

        Grand Total              2            0          1              76        1456             64            79           4         27         54        1560          41           3364
          Apprch %            66.7            0       33.3              4.8        91.2              4         71.8         3.6       24.5         3.3        94.3         2.5
           Total %             0.1            0          0              2.3        43.3            1.9          2.3         0.1        0.8         1.6        46.4         1.2




                               Grove Street                        Washington Street (Route 16)                  Starbucks Driveway               Washington Street (Route 16)
                               From North                                  From East                                 From South                           From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total          Right   Thru       Left App. Total        Right    Thru      Left App. Total   Right   Thru       Left App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
    08:00 AM         0       0       1        1      11                   197       16          224           9         0      4          13       2      211        9        222       460
    08:15 AM         0       0       0        0       6                   196        5          207           8         0      4          12       8      211        6        225       444
    08:30 AM         1       0       0        1      13                   190        6          209           9         1      2          12       5      210        3        218       440
    08:45 AM         1       0       0        1      13                   230        9          252          10         0      2          12       5      197       12        214       479
 Total Volume        2       0       1        3      43                   813       36          892          36         1     12          49      20      829       30        879      1823
 % App. Total    66.7        0    33.3              4.8                  91.1        4                     73.5         2   24.5                 2.3     94.3      3.4
          PHF    .500     .000    .250     .750    .827                  .884     .563          .885       .900      .250   .750        .942    .625     .982     .625       .977       .951
                                                                                          PRECISION
                                                                                          D A T A
N/S: Grove Street/ Starbucks Driveway                                                     INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                    File Name        : 91860 B
                                                                                      P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Washington Street (Route 16)                                                Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                     Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                             Site Code        : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                       Start Date       : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                       Page No          :1


                                                                                 Groups Printed- Heavy Vehicles
                                    Grove Street                     Washington Street (Route 16)           Starbucks Driveway                  Washington Street (Route 16)
                                    From North                               From East                          From South                              From West
             Start Time       Right       Thru          Left          Right        Thru         Left     Right       Thru               Left     Right        Thru         Left        Int. Total
           07:00 AM              0            0              0            1           2              0              0         0           0            0           6         0                9
           07:15 AM              0            0              0            0           9              0              0         0           0            0           4         0               13
           07:30 AM              0            0              0            1          12              0              0         0           0            0           5         0               18
           07:45 AM              0            0              0            3           8              0              0         0           0            0           6         0               17
               Total             0            0              0            5          31              0              0         0           0            0          21         0               57

           08:00 AM              0            0              0            1           8              0              0         0           0            0           7         0               16
           08:15 AM              1            0              0            2          10              0              0         0           0            0           6         1               20
           08:30 AM              0            0              0            0           8              0              0         0           0            0           6         0               14
           08:45 AM              0            0              0            1          13              0              0         0           0            0           5         0               19
               Total             1            0              0            4          39              0              0         0           0            0          24         1               69

        Grand Total              1            0              0            9         70               0              0         0           0            0        45           1             126
          Apprch %            100             0              0         11.4        88.6              0              0         0           0            0      97.8         2.2
           Total %             0.8            0              0          7.1        55.6              0              0         0           0            0      35.7         0.8




                               Grove Street                        Washington Street (Route 16)                  Starbucks Driveway               Washington Street (Route 16)
                               From North                                  From East                                 From South                           From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total          Right   Thru       Left App. Total        Right    Thru      Left App. Total   Right   Thru       Left App. Total     Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
    07:30 AM         0       0       0        0       1                    12        0            13          0         0      0           0       0          5       0            5         18
    07:45 AM         0       0       0        0       3                     8        0            11          0         0      0           0       0          6       0            6         17
    08:00 AM         0       0       0        0       1                     8        0             9          0         0      0           0       0          7       0            7         16
    08:15 AM         1       0       0        1       2                    10        0            12          0         0      0           0       0          6       1            7         20
 Total Volume        1       0       0        1       7                    38        0            45          0         0      0           0       0         24       1           25         71
 % App. Total     100        0       0             15.6                  84.4        0                        0         0      0                   0         96       4
          PHF    .250     .000    .000     .250    .583                  .792     .000          .865       .000      .000   .000        .000    .000       .857    .250      .893         .888
                                                                                   PRECISION
                                                                                   D A T A
N/S: Grove Street/ Starbucks Driveway                                              INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                             File Name     : 91860 B
                                                                                P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Washington Street (Route 16)                                          Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                               Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                               Site Code     : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                         Start Date    : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                         Page No       :1


                                                                       Groups Printed- Peds and Bicycles
                              Grove Street                 Washington Street (Route 16)            Starbucks Driveway                             Washington Street (Route 16)
                              From North                           From East                           From South                                         From West
       Start Time    Right    Thru      Left     Peds     Right   Thru        Left   Peds    Right     Thru      Left               Peds         Right   Thru        Left   Peds       Int. Total
      07:00 AM           0        0        0        0        0         0           0          0           0         0        0           1          0          4      0        1               6
      07:15 AM           0        0        0        1        0         4           0          0           0         0        0           1          0          0      0        1               7
      07:30 AM           0        0        0        0        0         0           0          0           0         0        0           0          0          2      1        0               3
      07:45 AM           0        0        0        0        1         0           0          0           0         0        0           1          0          2      0        0               4
          Total          0        0        0        1        1         4           0          0           0         0        0           3          0          8      1        2              20

      08:00 AM           0        0        0        1        0         0           0          0           0         0        0           0          0          1      0        1               3
      08:15 AM           0        0        0        0        0         1           0          0           0         0        0           0          0          0      0        0               1
      08:30 AM           0        0        0        0        0         2           0          0           0         0        0           0          0          1      0        0               3
      08:45 AM           0        0        0        0        1         0           0          1           0         0        0           0          0          4      0        1               7
          Total          0        0        0        1        1         3           0          1           0         0        0           0          0          6      0        2              14

   Grand Total           0        0        0        2        2        7            0         1            0         0        0          3           0      14         1        4              34
     Apprch %            0        0        0     100       20       70             0       10             0         0        0       100            0     73.7      5.3     21.1
      Total %            0        0        0      5.9      5.9     20.6            0       2.9            0         0        0        8.8           0     41.2      2.9     11.8




                            Grove Street                   Washington Street (Route 16)                       Starbucks Driveway                    Washington Street (Route 16)
                             From North                            From East                                       From South                               From West
   Start Time Right Thru        Left Peds App. Total Right Thru       Left Peds App. Total        Right       Thru    Left Peds    App. Total   Right  Thru    Left Peds App. Total     Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:00 AM
  07:00 AM      0       0     0     0        0     0  0    0    0                            0   0    0    0    1                         1        0       4      0    1           5           6
  07:15 AM      0       0     0     1        1     0  4                                      4   0    0    0    1                         1        0       0      0    1           1           7
  07:30 AM      0       0     0     0        0     0  0    0    0                            0   0    0    0    0                         0        0       2      1
  07:45 AM      0       0     0     0        0     1  0    0    0                            1   0    0    0    1                         1        0       2      0    0         2            4
 Total Volume   0       0     0     1        1     1  4    0    0                            5   0    0    0    3                         3        0       8      1    2        11           20
 % App. Total   0       0     0 100               20 80    0    0                                0    0    0 100                                   0    72.7    9.1 18.2
        PHF .000 .000 .000 .250          .250 .250 .250 .000 .000                        .313 .000 .000 .000 .750                    .750       .000    .500   .250 .500      .550        .714
                                                                                                      PRECISION
                                                                                                      D A T A
N/S: Grove Street/ Starbucks Driveway                                                                 INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                                 File Name         : 91860 B
                                                                                                  P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Washington Street (Route 16)                                                            Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                                 Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                                      Site Code         : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                                                Start Date        : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                                                Page No           :1



                               Grove Street                                    Washington Street (Route 16)                  Starbucks Driveway                  Washington Street (Route 16)
                               From North                                              From East                                 From South                              From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total                      Right   Thru       Left App. Total        Right    Thru      Left App. Total      Right   Thru       Left App. Total               Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
    08:00 AM         0       0       1        1      12                               205       16           233          9         0      4          13          2           218                   9   229        476
     08:15 AM        1       0       0        1       8                               206         5          219          8         0      4          12          8           217                   7   232        464
     08:30 AM        1       0       0        1      13                               198         6          217          9         1      2          12          5           216                   3   224        454
     08:45 AM        1       0       0        1      14                               243         9          266         10         0      2          12          5           202                  12   219        498
 Total Volume        3       0       1        4      47                               852        36          935         36         1     12          49         20           853                  31   904       1892
  % App. Total      75       0      25                5                              91.1       3.9                    73.5         2   24.5                    2.2          94.4                 3.4
           PHF    .750    .000    .250    1.000    .839                              .877     .563          .879       .900      .250   .750        .942       .625          .978                .646   .974       .950
           Cars      2       0       1        3      43                               813       36           892         36         1     12          49         20           829                  30    879      1823
       % Cars     66.7       0     100     75.0    91.5                              95.4      100          95.4        100       100    100         100        100          97.2                96.8   97.2       96.4
 Heavy Vehicles      1       0       0        1       4                                 39        0           43          0         0      0           0          0             24                  1     25         69
 % Heavy Vehicles 33.3       0       0     25.0     8.5                                4.6        0           4.6         0         0      0           0          0            2.8                3.2     2.8       3.6

                                                                                                          Grove Street
                                                                                                  Out         In       Total
                                                                                                    74           3        77
                                                                                                      5          1         6
                                                                                                    79           4        83


                                                                                                          2     0         1
                                                                                                          1     0         0
                                                                                                          3     0         1
                                                                                                      Right Thru      Left




                                                                                              Peak Hour Data
                                 Washington Street (Route 16)




                                                                                                                                                                  Washington Street (Route 16)
                                                        1706
                                                          65
                                                        1771
                                                       Total




                                                                                                                                                                    Out
                                                                  30
                                                                    1
                                                                  31




                                                                                                                                                                     890

                                                                                                                                                                     866
                                                                                                                                                  Right Thru
                                                                Left




                                                                                                                                                                      24




                                                                                                             North
                                                                                                                                                     47

                                                                                                                                                     43
                                                                                                                                                      4
                                                879
                                                 25
                                                904




                                                                                             Peak Hour Begins at 08:00 AM
                                                                       829
                                                                        24
                                                                       853
                                                                Right Thru
                                               In




                                                                                                                                                                              In
                                                                                                                                                         852

                                                                                                                                                         813


                                                                                                                                                                               935

                                                                                                                                                                               892
                                                                                                                                                          39




                                                                                                                                                                                43




                                                                                             Cars
                                                                                             Heavy Vehicles
                                                                   20
                                                                    0
                                                                   20




                                                                                                                                                  Left
                                     827
                                      40
                                     867
                                    Out




                                                                                                                                                                                       Total
                                                                                                                                                    36

                                                                                                                                                    36


                                                                                                                                                                                       1825

                                                                                                                                                                                       1758
                                                                                                                                                      0




                                                                                                                                                                                          67




                                                                                                      Left Thru Right
                                                                                                        12     1   36
                                                                                                          0    0    0
                                                                                                        12     1   36


                                                                                                    56       49      105
                                                                                                      0       0        0
                                                                                                    56       49      105
                                                                                                  Out      In      Total
                                                                                                   Starbucks Driveway
                                                                                          PRECISION
                                                                                          D A T A
N/S: Grove Street/ Starbucks Driveway                                                     INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                   File Name         : 91860 BB
                                                                                      P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Washington Street (Route 16)                                                Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                     Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                            Site Code         : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                      Start Date        : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                      Page No           :1


                                                                              Groups Printed- Cars - Heavy Vehicles
                                    Grove Street                     Washington Street (Route 16)           Starbucks Driveway                  Washington Street (Route 16)
                                    From North                               From East                           From South                             From West
             Start Time       Right       Thru          Left          Right        Thru         Left      Right       Thru              Left     Right        Thru         Left      Int. Total
           04:00 PM              0            0              1           17        215               1             4           0          1          0           210         7           456
           04:15 PM              0            0              0           12        212               0             5           0          3          4           192         2           430
           04:30 PM              0            0              1           18        237               1             4           0          2          3           209         6           481
           04:45 PM              0            0              0            6        218               1             5           1          3          7           191         5           437
               Total             0            0              2           53        882               3            18           1          9         14           802        20          1804

           05:00 PM              0            0              1           19        250               0             2           0          0          2           204         2           480
           05:15 PM              0            0              0           16        204               0             7           0          0          5           207         4           443
           05:30 PM              2            0              0           17        206               0             5           0          2          6           215         3           456
           05:45 PM              0            0              0           27        211               0             5           0          4          5           204         3           459
               Total             2            0              1           79        871               0            19           0          6         18           830        12          1838

      Grand Total                2            0           3            132        1753              3            37             1       15         32        1632          32           3642
        Apprch %               40             0         60                7        92.8           0.2          69.8           1.9     28.3         1.9        96.2         1.9
          Total %              0.1            0         0.1             3.6        48.1           0.1             1             0      0.4         0.9        44.8         0.9
            Cars                 2            0           3            125        1741              3            37             1       15         29        1617           31          3604
          % Cars              100             0        100             94.7        99.3           100          100           100      100         90.6        99.1        96.9            99
   Heavy Vehicles                0            0           0               7          12             0             0             0        0           3          15           1            38
 % Heavy Vehicles                0            0           0             5.3         0.7             0             0             0        0         9.4         0.9         3.1             1




                               Grove Street                        Washington Street (Route 16)                  Starbucks Driveway               Washington Street (Route 16)
                               From North                                  From East                                 From South                           From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total          Right   Thru       Left App. Total        Right    Thru      Left App. Total   Right   Thru       Left App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:30 PM
    04:30 PM         0       0       1        1      18                   237         1         256           4          0       2         6       3      209         6       218       481
     04:45 PM        0       0       0        0       6                   218         1         225           5          1       3         9       7      191         5       203       437
     05:00 PM        0       0       1        1      19                   250         0         269           2          0       0         2       2      204         2       208       480
     05:15 PM        0       0       0        0      16                   204         0         220           7          0       0         7       5      207         4       216       443
 Total Volume        0       0       2        2      59                   909         2         970          18          1       5        24      17      811        17       845      1841
  % App. Total       0       0     100              6.1                  93.7       0.2                      75        4.2    20.8                 2        96        2
           PHF    .000    .000    .500     .500    .776                  .909     .500          .901       .643      .250     .417      .667    .607     .970      .708      .969       .957
           Cars      0       0       2        2      56                   903         2          961         18          1       5        24      15      804        17       836      1823
       % Cars        0       0     100      100    94.9                  99.3      100          99.1        100       100      100       100    88.2     99.1       100      98.9       99.0
 Heavy Vehicles      0       0       0        0       3                      6        0             9         0          0       0         0       2         7        0          9        18
 % Heavy Vehicles    0       0       0        0     5.1                    0.7        0           0.9         0          0       0         0    11.8       0.9        0        1.1       1.0
                                                                                          PRECISION
                                                                                          D A T A
N/S: Grove Street/ Starbucks Driveway                                                     INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                   File Name         : 91860 BB
                                                                                      P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Washington Street (Route 16)                                                Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                     Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                            Site Code         : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                      Start Date        : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                      Page No           :1


                                                                                       Groups Printed- Cars
                                    Grove Street                     Washington Street (Route 16)           Starbucks Driveway                  Washington Street (Route 16)
                                    From North                               From East                          From South                              From West
             Start Time       Right       Thru          Left          Right        Thru         Left      Right      Thru               Left     Right        Thru         Left      Int. Total
           04:00 PM              0            0              1           16        212               1             4          0           1          0          210          6           451
           04:15 PM              0            0              0           12        211               0             5          0           3          4          188          2           425
           04:30 PM              0            0              1           17        237               1             4          0           2          3          209          6           480
           04:45 PM              0            0              0            5        217               1             5          1           3          6          189          5           432
               Total             0            0              2           50        877               3            18          1           9         13          796         19          1788

           05:00 PM              0            0              1           18        249               0             2          0           0          2          201          2           475
           05:15 PM              0            0              0           16        200               0             7          0           0          4          205          4           436
           05:30 PM              2            0              0           15        204               0             5          0           2          5          212          3           448
           05:45 PM              0            0              0           26        211               0             5          0           4          5          203          3           457
               Total             2            0              1           75        864               0            19          0           6         16          821         12          1816

        Grand Total              2            0           3            125        1741               3           37           1         15         29        1617          31           3604
          Apprch %             40             0         60              6.7        93.2            0.2         69.8         1.9       28.3         1.7        96.4         1.8
           Total %             0.1            0         0.1             3.5        48.3            0.1            1           0        0.4         0.8        44.9         0.9




                               Grove Street                        Washington Street (Route 16)                  Starbucks Driveway               Washington Street (Route 16)
                               From North                                  From East                                 From South                           From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total          Right   Thru       Left App. Total        Right    Thru      Left App. Total   Right   Thru       Left App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:30 PM
    04:30 PM         0       0       1        1      17                   237        1          255           4         0      2           6       3      209        6        218       480
    04:45 PM         0       0       0        0       5                   217        1          223           5         1      3           9       6      189        5        200       432
    05:00 PM         0       0       1        1      18                   249        0          267           2         0      0           2       2      201        2        205       475
    05:15 PM         0       0       0        0      16                   200        0          216           7         0      0           7       4      205        4        213       436
 Total Volume        0       0       2        2      56                   903        2          961          18         1      5          24      15      804       17        836      1823
 % App. Total        0       0     100              5.8                    94      0.2                       75       4.2   20.8                 1.8     96.2        2
          PHF    .000     .000    .500     .500    .778                  .907     .500          .900       .643      .250   .417        .667    .625     .962     .708       .959       .949
                                                                                           PRECISION
                                                                                           D A T A
N/S: Grove Street/ Starbucks Driveway                                                      INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                   File Name        : 91860 BB
                                                                                      P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Washington Street (Route 16)                                                Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                     Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                             Site Code        : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                       Start Date       : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                       Page No          :1


                                                                                 Groups Printed- Heavy Vehicles
                                    Grove Street                     Washington Street (Route 16)           Starbucks Driveway                  Washington Street (Route 16)
                                    From North                               From East                          From South                              From West
             Start Time       Right       Thru          Left          Right        Thru         Left     Right       Thru               Left     Right        Thru         Left        Int. Total
           04:00 PM              0            0              0            1            3             0              0         0           0            0          0          1                5
           04:15 PM              0            0              0            0            1             0              0         0           0            0          4          0                5
           04:30 PM              0            0              0            1            0             0              0         0           0            0          0          0                1
           04:45 PM              0            0              0            1            1             0              0         0           0            1          2          0                5
               Total             0            0              0            3            5             0              0         0           0            1          6          1               16

           05:00 PM              0            0              0            1            1             0              0         0           0            0          3          0                5
           05:15 PM              0            0              0            0            4             0              0         0           0            1          2          0                7
           05:30 PM              0            0              0            2            2             0              0         0           0            1          3          0                8
           05:45 PM              0            0              0            1            0             0              0         0           0            0          1          0                2
               Total             0            0              0            4            7             0              0         0           0            2          9          0               22

        Grand Total              0            0              0            7         12               0              0         0           0          3          15           1               38
          Apprch %               0            0              0         36.8        63.2              0              0         0           0       15.8        78.9         5.3
           Total %               0            0              0         18.4        31.6              0              0         0           0        7.9        39.5         2.6




                               Grove Street                        Washington Street (Route 16)                  Starbucks Driveway               Washington Street (Route 16)
                               From North                                  From East                                 From South                           From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total          Right   Thru       Left App. Total        Right    Thru      Left App. Total   Right   Thru       Left App. Total     Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:45 PM
    04:45 PM         0       0       0        0       1                     1        0             2          0         0      0           0       1          2      0             3          5
    05:00 PM         0       0       0        0       1                     1        0             2          0         0      0           0       0          3      0             3          5
    05:15 PM         0       0       0        0       0                     4        0             4          0         0      0           0       1          2      0             3          7
    05:30 PM         0       0       0        0       2                     2        0             4          0         0      0           0       1          3      0             4          8
 Total Volume        0       0       0        0       4                     8        0            12          0         0      0           0       3         10      0            13         25
 % App. Total        0       0       0             33.3                  66.7        0                        0         0      0                23.1       76.9      0
          PHF    .000     .000    .000     .000    .500                  .500     .000          .750       .000      .000   .000        .000    .750       .833   .000       .813         .781
                                                                                   PRECISION
                                                                                   D A T A
N/S: Grove Street/ Starbucks Driveway                                              INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                             File Name        : 91860 BB
                                                                                P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Washington Street (Route 16)                                          Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                               Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                               Site Code        : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                         Start Date       : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                         Page No          :1


                                                                       Groups Printed- Peds and Bicycles
                              Grove Street                 Washington Street (Route 16)            Starbucks Driveway                             Washington Street (Route 16)
                              From North                           From East                           From South                                         From West
       Start Time    Right    Thru      Left     Peds     Right   Thru        Left   Peds    Right     Thru      Left               Peds         Right   Thru        Left   Peds          Int. Total
      04:00 PM           0        0        0        0        0         0           0          0           0         0         0         7           0          1       0         0                8
      04:15 PM           0        0        0        2        0         3           0          0           0         0         0         7           0          1       0         2               15
      04:30 PM           0        0        0        2        0         0           0          0           0         0         0        10           0          0       0         4               16
      04:45 PM           0        0        0        1        0         0           0          0           0         0         0         9           0          0       0         2               12
          Total          0        0        0        5        0         3           0          0           0         0         0        33           0          2       0         8               51

      05:00 PM           0        0        1        0        0         1           0          0           0         0         0        10           0          0       0         1               13
      05:15 PM           0        0        0        1        0         0           0          0           0         0         0         6           0          0       0         1                8
      05:30 PM           0        0        0        0        0         2           0          0           0         0         0         7           0          2       0         0               11
      05:45 PM           0        0        0        0        0         2           0          0           0         0         0         4           0          1       0         1                8
          Total          0        0        1        1        0         5           0          0           0         0         0        27           0          3       0         3               40

   Grand Total           0        0       1         6        0         8           0          0           0         0         0      60             0        5         0        11               91
     Apprch %            0        0    14.3      85.7        0      100            0          0           0         0         0     100             0     31.2         0       68.8
      Total %            0        0     1.1       6.6        0       8.8           0          0           0         0         0     65.9            0      5.5         0       12.1




                            Grove Street                   Washington Street (Route 16)                       Starbucks Driveway                    Washington Street (Route 16)
                             From North                            From East                                       From South                               From West
   Start Time Right Thru        Left Peds App. Total Right Thru       Left Peds App. Total        Right       Thru    Left Peds    App. Total   Right  Thru    Left Peds App. Total        Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:15 PM
  04:15 PM      0       0     0     2        2     0   3   0    0                            3        0         0       0     7          7         0      1        0       2          3         15
  04:30 PM      0       0     0     2        2     0   0   0    0                            0        0         0       0    10         10         0      0        0       4          4         16
  04:45 PM      0       0     0     1        1     0   0   0    0                            0        0         0       0     9          9         0      0        0       2          2         12
  05:00 PM      0       0     1
 Total Volume   0       0     1     5        6     0   4   0    0                            4       0    0            0      36        36         0       1      0    9          10            56
 % App. Total   0       0 16.7 83.3                0 100   0    0                                    0    0            0     100                   0      10      0   90
        PHF .000 .000 .250 .625          .750 .000 .333 .000 .000                        .333     .000 .000         .000    .900     .900       .000    .250   .000 .563        .625         .875
                                                                                                       PRECISION
                                                                                                       D A T A
N/S: Grove Street/ Starbucks Driveway                                                                  INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                                  File Name         : 91860 BB
                                                                                                   P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Washington Street (Route 16)                                                             Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                                  Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                                        Site Code         : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                                                  Start Date        : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                                                  Page No           :1



                               Grove Street                                     Washington Street (Route 16)                  Starbucks Driveway                   Washington Street (Route 16)
                               From North                                               From East                                 From South                               From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total                       Right   Thru       Left App. Total        Right    Thru      Left App. Total       Right   Thru       Left App. Total               Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:30 PM
    04:30 PM         0       0       1        1      18                                237         1          256          4          0      2          6           3           209                   6   218        481
     04:45 PM        0       0       0        0       6                                218         1          225          5          1      3          9           7           191                   5   203        437
     05:00 PM        0       0       1        1      19                                250         0          269          2          0      0          2           2           204                   2   208        480
     05:15 PM        0       0       0        0      16                                204         0          220          7          0      0          7           5           207                   4   216        443
 Total Volume        0       0       2        2      59                                909         2          970         18          1      5         24          17           811                  17   845       1841
  % App. Total       0       0     100              6.1                               93.7       0.2                      75        4.2   20.8                      2             96                  2
           PHF    .000    .000    .500     .500    .776                               .909     .500          .901       .643      .250    .417       .667        .607          .970                .708   .969       .957
           Cars      0       0       2        2      56                                903         2          961         18          1      5         24          15           804                  17    836      1823
       % Cars        0       0     100      100    94.9                               99.3      100          99.1        100       100     100        100        88.2          99.1                 100   98.9       99.0
 Heavy Vehicles      0       0       0        0       3                                   6        0             9         0          0      0          0           2              7                  0       9        18
 % Heavy Vehicles    0       0       0        0     5.1                                 0.7        0           0.9         0          0      0          0        11.8            0.9                  0     1.1       1.0

                                                                                                           Grove Street
                                                                                                   Out         In       Total
                                                                                                     74           2        76
                                                                                                       3          0         3
                                                                                                     77           2        79


                                                                                                           0     0         2
                                                                                                           0     0         0
                                                                                                           0     0         2
                                                                                                       Right Thru      Left




                                                                                               Peak Hour Data
                                 Washington Street (Route 16)




                                                                                                                                                                    Washington Street (Route 16)
                                                        1744
                                                          15
                                                        1759
                                                       Total




                                                                                                                                                                      Out
                                                                  17
                                                                    0
                                                                  17




                                                                                                                                                                       831

                                                                                                                                                                       824
                                                                                                                                                   Right Thru
                                                                Left




                                                                                                                                                                          7




                                                                                                              North
                                                                                                                                                      59

                                                                                                                                                      56
                                                                                                                                                       3
                                                836
                                                  9
                                                845




                                                                                              Peak Hour Begins at 04:30 PM
                                                                       804
                                                                          7
                                                                       811
                                                                Right Thru
                                               In




                                                                                                                                                                                In
                                                                                                                                                          909

                                                                                                                                                          903


                                                                                                                                                                                 970

                                                                                                                                                                                 961




                                                                                              Cars
                                                                                                                                                             6




                                                                                                                                                                                   9




                                                                                              Heavy Vehicles
                                                                   15
                                                                    2
                                                                   17




                                                                                                                                                   Left
                                     908
                                        6
                                     914
                                    Out




                                                                                                                                                                                         Total
                                                                                                                                                                                         1801

                                                                                                                                                                                         1785
                                                                                                                                                       2
                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                       2



                                                                                                                                                                                            16




                                                                                                       Left Thru Right
                                                                                                           5    1   18
                                                                                                           0    0    0
                                                                                                           5    1   18


                                                                                                     17       24       41
                                                                                                       2       0        2
                                                                                                     19       24       43
                                                                                                   Out      In      Total
                                                                                                    Starbucks Driveway
                                                                                    PRECISION
                                                                                    D A T A
N/S: Concord Street                                                                 INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                    File Name         : 91860 C
                                                                                 P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E: Hagar Road                                                               Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                       Site Code         : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                 Start Date        : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                 Page No           :1


                                                                          Groups Printed- Cars - Heavy Vehicles
                                                   Concord Road                              Hagar Road                               Concord Road
                                                    From North                                From East                                From South
                           Start Time               Thru                   Left              Right                        Left         Right              Thru               Int. Total
                          07:00 AM                   27                    11                      3                      23               20              42                     126
                          07:15 AM                   39                    15                      8                      30               47              52                     191
                          07:30 AM                   33                    26                      6                      28               35              58                     186
                          07:45 AM                   45                    27                     13                      30               48              83                     246
                              Total                 144                    79                     30                     111              150             235                     749

                          08:00 AM                   52                    26                      6                      29               37              85                     235
                          08:15 AM                   52                    22                     10                      26               35              65                     210
                          08:30 AM                   42                    20                     14                      35               37              52                     200
                          08:45 AM                   42                    18                     14                      35               35              52                     196
                              Total                 188                    86                     44                     125              144             254                     841

                     Grand Total                   332                    165                    74                     236           294                 489                   1590
                       Apprch %                    66.8                   33.2                  23.9                    76.1          37.5                62.5
                         Total %                   20.9                   10.4                   4.7                    14.8          18.5                30.8
                           Cars                    327                    161                    72                     227           284                 487                   1558
                         % Cars                    98.5                   97.6                  97.3                    96.2          96.6                99.6                    98
                  Heavy Vehicles                      5                      4                     2                       9           10                    2                    32
                % Heavy Vehicles                    1.5                    2.4                   2.7                     3.8           3.4                 0.4                     2




                                          Concord Road                                        Hagar Road                                   Concord Road
                                           From North                                          From East                                    From South
                Start Time         Thru          Left        App. Total           Right             Left             App. Total   Right          Thru      App. Total        Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
            07:45 AM             45          27                    72                13                30                  43       48            83             131             246
             08:00 AM            52           26                   78                 6                29                  35        37           85             122             235
             08:15 AM             52          22                   74                10                26                  36        35           65             100             210
             08:30 AM             42          20                   62                14               35                   49        37           52              89             200
        Total Volume            191           95                  286                43              120                  163      157           285             442             891
         % App. Total          66.8        33.2                                    26.4             73.6                          35.5          64.5
                  PHF          .918        .880                   .917             .768             .857                 .832     .818          .838             .844            .905
                  Cars          188           93                   281               42              115                  157      151           284              435             873
               % Cars          98.4        97.9                   98.3             97.7             95.8                 96.3     96.2          99.6             98.4            98.0
       Heavy Vehicles              3           2                      5               1                 5                    6        6            1                 7             18
     % Heavy Vehicles            1.6         2.1                    1.7             2.3               4.2                  3.7      3.8          0.4               1.6            2.0
                                                                                    PRECISION
                                                                                    D A T A
N/S: Concord Street                                                                 INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                    File Name        : 91860 C
                                                                                 P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E: Hagar Road                                                               Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                       Site Code        : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                 Start Date       : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                 Page No          :1


                                                                                   Groups Printed- Cars
                                                   Concord Road                               Hagar Road                              Concord Road
                                                    From North                                 From East                               From South
                           Start Time               Thru                   Left               Right                       Left         Right              Thru              Int. Total
                          07:00 AM                   26                    11                      3                      20               20              42                    122
                          07:15 AM                   38                    14                      8                      30               46              51                    187
                          07:30 AM                   33                    26                      6                      27               33              58                    183
                          07:45 AM                   44                    26                     13                      28               46              83                    240
                              Total                 141                    77                     30                     105              145             234                    732

                          08:00 AM                   51                    25                      6                      27               36              85                    230
                          08:15 AM                   51                    22                      9                      25               34              64                    205
                          08:30 AM                   42                    20                     14                      35               35              52                    198
                          08:45 AM                   42                    17                     13                      35               34              52                    193
                              Total                 186                    84                     42                     122              139             253                    826

                       Grand Total                  327                   161                    72                     227           284                 487                  1558
                         Apprch %                    67                    33                   24.1                    75.9          36.8                63.2
                          Total %                    21                   10.3                   4.6                    14.6          18.2                31.3




                                          Concord Road                                        Hagar Road                                   Concord Road
                                           From North                                          From East                                    From South
                Start Time         Thru          Left        App. Total           Right             Left             App. Total   Right          Thru      App. Total       Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
            07:45 AM             44          26                    70                13               28                   41       46            83             129            240
             08:00 AM            51          25                    76                 6               27                   33       36            85             121            230
             08:15 AM            51          22                    73                 9               25                   34       34            64              98            205
             08:30 AM            42          20                    62                14               35                   49       35            52              87            198
        Total Volume            188          93                   281                42              115                  157      151           284             435            873
         % App. Total          66.9        33.1                                    26.8             73.2                          34.7          65.3
                  PHF          .922        .894                   .924             .750             .821                 .801     .821          .835             .843           .909
                                                                                    PRECISION
                                                                                    D A T A
N/S: Concord Street                                                                 INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                   File Name        : 91860 C
                                                                                 P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E: Hagar Road                                                               Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                      Site Code        : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                Start Date       : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                Page No          :1


                                                                             Groups Printed- Heavy Vehicles
                                                   Concord Road                              Hagar Road                               Concord Road
                                                    From North                                From East                                From South
                           Start Time               Thru                   Left              Right                        Left         Right             Thru              Int. Total
                          07:00 AM                     1                     0                      0                       3             0                0                      4
                          07:15 AM                     1                     1                      0                       0             1                1                      4
                          07:30 AM                     0                     0                      0                       1             2                0                      3
                          07:45 AM                     1                     1                      0                       2             2                0                      6
                              Total                    3                     2                      0                       6             5                1                     17

                          08:00 AM                     1                     1                      0                       2             1                0                      5
                          08:15 AM                     1                     0                      1                       1             1                1                      5
                          08:30 AM                     0                     0                      0                       0             2                0                      2
                          08:45 AM                     0                     1                      1                       0             1                0                      3
                              Total                    2                     2                      2                       3             5                1                     15

                       Grand Total                    5                      4                     2                       9            10                  2                    32
                         Apprch %                  55.6                   44.4                  18.2                    81.8          83.3               16.7
                          Total %                  15.6                   12.5                   6.2                    28.1          31.2                6.2




                                          Concord Road                                        Hagar Road                                  Concord Road
                                           From North                                          From East                                   From South
                Start Time         Thru          Left        App. Total           Right             Left             App. Total   Right         Thru      App. Total       Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
            07:30 AM              0           0                      0                0                1                     1       2            0               2               3
             07:45 AM             1           1                      2                0                2                     2       2            0               2               6
             08:00 AM             1           1                      2                0                2                     2       1            0               1               5
             08:15 AM             1           0                      1                1                1                     2       1            1               2               5
        Total Volume              3           2                      5                1                6                     7       6            1               7              19
         % App. Total            60          40                                    14.3             85.7                          85.7         14.3
                  PHF          .750        .500                   .625             .250             .750                 .875     .750         .250             .875           .792
                                                                                    PRECISION
                                                                                    D A T A
N/S: Concord Street                                                                 INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                        File Name     : 91860 C
                                                                                 P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E: Hagar Road                                                               Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                           Site Code     : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                     Start Date    : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                     Page No       :1


                                                                        Groups Printed- Peds and Bicycles
                                           Concord Road                                 Hagar Road                                         Concord Road
                                            From North                                   From East                                          From South
                  Start Time          Thru          Left           Peds        Right            Left                     Peds        Right         Thru          Peds         Int. Total
                 07:00 AM                0              0               0                0                 1                 0            0           0              0               1
                 07:15 AM                0              0               0                0                 0                 0            0           0              0               0
                 07:30 AM                3              2               0                0                 0                 1            0           0              0               6
                 07:45 AM                1              0               0                1                 0                 1            0           0              0               3
                     Total               4              2               0                1                 1                 2            0           0              0              10

                 08:00 AM                2              0               0                1                 1                 3            0           1              0               8
                 08:15 AM                0              0               0                1                 0                 0            0           0              0               1
                 08:30 AM                0              0               0                0                 1                 0            1           0              0               2
                 08:45 AM                0              0               0                0                 0                 0            0           0              0               0
                     Total               2              0               0                2                 2                 3            1           1              0              11

              Grand Total               6              2                0              3                 3                  5           1              1             0              21
                Apprch %               75             25                0           27.3              27.3               45.5         50             50              0
                 Total %             28.6            9.5                0           14.3              14.3               23.8         4.8            4.8             0




                                       Concord Road                                          Hagar Road                                       Concord Road
                                         From North                                           From East                                        From South
           Start Time      Thru         Left     Peds      App. Total       Right            Left     Peds           App. Total   Right       Thru     Peds      App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
        07:30 AM           3         2         0                   5           0             0             1                 1       0           0           0           0           6
        07:45 AM           1         0         0                   1           1             0             1                 2       0           0           0           0           3
        08:00 AM           2         0         0                   2           1             1             3                 5       0           1                       1           8
        08:15 AM           0         0         0                   0           1             0             0                 1       0           0        0              0           1
     Total Volume          6         2         0                   8           3             1             5                 9       0           1        0              1          18
     % App. Total         75        25         0                            33.3          11.1          55.6                         0         100        0
              PHF       .500      .250      .000                .400        .750          .250          .417             .450     .000        .250     .000          .250         .563
                                                                                  PRECISION
                                                                                  D A T A
N/S: Concord Street                                                               INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                      File Name            : 91860 C
                                                                               P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E: Hagar Road                                                             Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                              Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                       Site Code            : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                 Start Date           : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                 Page No              :1



                                          Concord Road                                      Hagar Road                                   Concord Road
                                           From North                                        From East                                    From South
                Start Time         Thru          Left        App. Total         Right             Left             App. Total    Right         Thru            App. Total       Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
            07:45 AM             45          27                    72              13                30                  43        48           83                  131             246
             08:00 AM            52           26                   78               6                29                  35         37          85                  122             235
             08:15 AM             52          22                   74              10                26                  36         35          65                  100             210
             08:30 AM             42          20                   62              14               35                   49         37          52                   89             200
        Total Volume            191           95                  286              43              120                  163       157          285                  442             891
         % App. Total          66.8        33.2                                  26.4             73.6                           35.5         64.5
                  PHF          .918        .880                  .917            .768             .857                 .832      .818         .838                 .844             .905
                  Cars          188           93                  281              42              115                  157       151          284                  435              873
               % Cars          98.4        97.9                  98.3            97.7             95.8                 96.3      96.2         99.6                 98.4             98.0
       Heavy Vehicles              3           2                     5              1                 5                    6         6           1                     7              18
     % Heavy Vehicles            1.6         2.1                   1.7            2.3               4.2                  3.7       3.8         0.4                   1.6             2.0

                                                                                    Concord Road
                                                                               Out       In      Total
                                                                                326       281     607
                                                                                   2        5        7
                                                                                328       286     614


                                                                                       188       93
                                                                                          3        2
                                                                                       191       95
                                                                                      Thru     Left




                                                                           Peak Hour Data                                                   Out
                                                                                                                                             252

                                                                                                                                             244
                                                                                                                                                8




                                                                                          North
                                                                                                                                Right




                                                                                                                                            Hagar Road




                                                                          Peak Hour Begins at 07:45 AM
                                                                                                                                   43

                                                                                                                                   42
                                                                                                                                    1




                                                                                                                                                In
                                                                                                                                                 163

                                                                                                                                                 157




                                                                          Cars
                                                                                                                                Left




                                                                                                                                                   6
                                                                                                                                 120

                                                                                                                                 115




                                                                          Heavy Vehicles
                                                                                                                                    5




                                                                                                                                                       Total
                                                                                                                                                        415

                                                                                                                                                        401
                                                                                                                                                          14




                                                                                      Thru Right
                                                                                       284   151
                                                                                          1    6
                                                                                       285   157


                                                                                303       435     738
                                                                                   8        7       15
                                                                                311       442     753
                                                                               Out       In      Total
                                                                                    Concord Road
                                                                                    PRECISION
                                                                                    D A T A
N/S: Concord Road                                                                   INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                   File Name         : 91860 CC
                                                                                 P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E: Hagar Road                                                               Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                      Site Code         : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                Start Date        : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                Page No           :1


                                                                          Groups Printed- Cars - Heavy Vehicles
                                                   Concord Road                              Hagar Road                               Concord Road
                                                    From North                                From East                                From South
                           Start Time               Thru                   Left              Right                        Left         Right             Thru               Int. Total
                          04:00 PM                   80                    11                     11                       29             24              51                     206
                          04:15 PM                   98                     8                      7                       23             28              30                     194
                          04:30 PM                   81                    11                     17                       20             23              51                     203
                          04:45 PM                   74                     7                     24                       26             20              38                     189
                              Total                 333                    37                     59                       98             95             170                     792

                          05:00 PM                   80                     9                     20                      42              23              30                     204
                          05:15 PM                   83                     7                     20                      25              23              41                     199
                          05:30 PM                   60                     9                     13                      30              31              25                     168
                          05:45 PM                   55                     8                     29                      26              17              44                     179
                              Total                 278                    33                     82                     123              94             140                     750

                     Grand Total                   611                     70                   141                     221           189                310                   1542
                       Apprch %                    89.7                   10.3                   39                       61          37.9               62.1
                         Total %                   39.6                    4.5                   9.1                    14.3          12.3               20.1
                           Cars                    608                     67                   138                     219           186                308                   1526
                         % Cars                    99.5                   95.7                  97.9                    99.1          98.4               99.4                    99
                  Heavy Vehicles                      3                      3                     3                       2             3                  2                    16
                % Heavy Vehicles                    0.5                    4.3                   2.1                     0.9           1.6                0.6                     1




                                          Concord Road                                        Hagar Road                                  Concord Road
                                           From North                                          From East                                   From South
                Start Time         Thru          Left        App. Total           Right             Left             App. Total   Right         Thru      App. Total        Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:30 PM
            04:30 PM             81          11                    92                17                20                  37       23           51              74             203
             04:45 PM            74            7                   81                24                26                  50       20           38              58             189
             05:00 PM            80            9                   89                20               42                   62       23           30              53             204
             05:15 PM            83            7                   90                20                25                  45       23           41              64             199
        Total Volume            318           34                  352                81              113                  194       89          160             249             795
         % App. Total          90.3          9.7                                   41.8             58.2                          35.7         64.3
                  PHF          .958        .773                   .957             .844             .673                 .782     .967         .784             .841            .974
                  Cars          318          32                    350               79              111                  190       87          159              246             786
               % Cars           100        94.1                   99.4             97.5             98.2                 97.9     97.8         99.4             98.8            98.9
       Heavy Vehicles             0            2                      2               2                 2                    4       2            1                 3              9
     % Heavy Vehicles             0          5.9                    0.6             2.5               1.8                  2.1     2.2          0.6               1.2            1.1
                                                                                   PRECISION
                                                                                   D A T A
N/S: Concord Road                                                                  INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                   File Name        : 91860 CC
                                                                                P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E: Hagar Road                                                              Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                               Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                     Site Code        : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                               Start Date       : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                               Page No          :1


                                                                                  Groups Printed- Cars
                                                   Concord Road                              Hagar Road                              Concord Road
                                                    From North                                From East                               From South
                           Start Time               Thru                  Left               Right                       Left         Right             Thru              Int. Total
                          04:00 PM                   79                   11                     11                       29             23              50                    203
                          04:15 PM                   97                    8                      7                       23             28              30                    193
                          04:30 PM                   81                   10                     17                       19             22              50                    199
                          04:45 PM                   74                    7                     23                       26             20              38                    188
                              Total                 331                   36                     58                       97             93             168                    783

                          05:00 PM                   80                    8                     20                      42              22              30                    202
                          05:15 PM                   83                    7                     19                      24              23              41                    197
                          05:30 PM                   59                    8                     13                      30              31              25                    166
                          05:45 PM                   55                    8                     28                      26              17              44                    178
                              Total                 277                   31                     80                     122              93             140                    743

                       Grand Total                 608                    67                   138                     219           186                308                  1526
                         Apprch %                  90.1                   9.9                  38.7                    61.3          37.7               62.3
                          Total %                  39.8                   4.4                     9                    14.4          12.2               20.2




                                          Concord Road                                       Hagar Road                                  Concord Road
                                           From North                                         From East                                   From South
                Start Time         Thru          Left        App. Total          Right             Left             App. Total   Right         Thru      App. Total       Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:30 PM
            04:30 PM             81          10                    91               17               19                   36       22           50              72            199
             04:45 PM            74            7                   81               23               26                   49       20           38              58            188
             05:00 PM            80            8                   88               20               42                   62       22           30              52            202
             05:15 PM            83            7                   90               19               24                   43       23           41              64            197
        Total Volume            318           32                  350               79              111                  190       87          159             246            786
         % App. Total          90.9          9.1                                  41.6             58.4                          35.4         64.6
                  PHF          .958        .800                   .962            .859             .661                 .766     .946         .795             .854           .973
                                                                                    PRECISION
                                                                                    D A T A
N/S: Concord Road                                                                   INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                   File Name        : 91860 CC
                                                                                 P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E: Hagar Road                                                               Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                      Site Code        : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                Start Date       : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                Page No          :1


                                                                             Groups Printed- Heavy Vehicles
                                                   Concord Road                              Hagar Road                               Concord Road
                                                    From North                                From East                                From South
                           Start Time               Thru                   Left              Right                        Left         Right             Thru              Int. Total
                          04:00 PM                     1                     0                      0                       0             1                1                       3
                          04:15 PM                     1                     0                      0                       0             0                0                       1
                          04:30 PM                     0                     1                      0                       1             1                1                       4
                          04:45 PM                     0                     0                      1                       0             0                0                       1
                              Total                    2                     1                      1                       1             2                2                       9

                          05:00 PM                     0                     1                      0                       0             1                0                       2
                          05:15 PM                     0                     0                      1                       1             0                0                       2
                          05:30 PM                     1                     1                      0                       0             0                0                       2
                          05:45 PM                     0                     0                      1                       0             0                0                       1
                              Total                    1                     2                      2                       1             1                0                       7

                       Grand Total                    3                      3                     3                       2             3                  2                    16
                         Apprch %                   50                     50                    60                       40           60                 40
                          Total %                  18.8                   18.8                  18.8                    12.5          18.8               12.5




                                          Concord Road                                        Hagar Road                                  Concord Road
                                           From North                                          From East                                   From South
                Start Time         Thru          Left        App. Total           Right             Left             App. Total   Right         Thru      App. Total       Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:00 PM
            04:00 PM              1           0                      1                0                0                     0       1            1               2                3
             04:15 PM             1           0                      1                0                0                     0       0            0               0                1
             04:30 PM             0           1                      1                0                1                     1       1            1               2                4
             04:45 PM             0           0                      0                1                0                     1       0            0               0                1
        Total Volume              2           1                      3                1                1                     2       2            2               4                9
         % App. Total          66.7        33.3                                      50               50                            50           50
                  PHF          .500        .250                   .750             .250             .250                 .500     .500         .500             .500           .563
                                                                                    PRECISION
                                                                                    D A T A
N/S: Concord Road                                                                   INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                         File Name    : 91860 CC
                                                                                 P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E: Hagar Road                                                               Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                            Site Code    : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                      Start Date   : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                      Page No      :1


                                                                        Groups Printed- Peds and Bicycles
                                           Concord Road                                 Hagar Road                                         Concord Road
                                            From North                                   From East                                          From South
                  Start Time          Thru          Left           Peds        Right            Left                     Peds        Right         Thru           Peds        Int. Total
                 04:00 PM                0              0               0                0                 0                 0            0            0             0                0
                 04:15 PM                0              0               0                0                 0                 1            0            0             0                1
                 04:30 PM                0              0               0                0                 0                 0            0            1             0                1
                 04:45 PM                0              0               0                0                 0                 3            0            0             0                3
                     Total               0              0               0                0                 0                 4            0            1             0                5

                 05:00 PM                0              0               0                0                 0                 0            0            0             0                0
                 05:15 PM                2              0               0                0                 0                 0            0            0             0                2
                 05:30 PM                1              0               0                0                 0                 0            0            0             0                1
                 05:45 PM                0              0               0                0                 0                 0            0            0             0                0
                     Total               3              0               0                0                 0                 0            0            0             0                3

              Grand Total               3               0               0                0                 0                4             0             1            0                8
                Apprch %             100                0               0                0                 0              100             0          100             0
                 Total %             37.5               0               0                0                 0               50             0          12.5            0




                                       Concord Road                                          Hagar Road                                       Concord Road
                                         From North                                           From East                                        From South
           Start Time      Thru         Left     Peds      App. Total       Right            Left     Peds           App. Total   Right       Thru     Peds      App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:30 PM
        04:30 PM           0         0         0                   0           0             0             0                 0       0           1         0             1            1
        04:45 PM           0         0         0                   0           0             0             3                 3       0           0         0             0            3
        05:00 PM           0         0         0                   0           0             0             0                 0       0           0         0             0            0
        05:15 PM           2         0         0                   2           0             0             0                 0       0           0         0             0            2
     Total Volume          2         0         0                   2           0             0             3                 3       0           1         0             1            6
     % App. Total        100         0         0                               0             0           100                         0         100         0
              PHF       .250      .000      .000                .250        .000          .000          .250             .250     .000        .250      .000         .250         .500
                                                                                  PRECISION
                                                                                  D A T A
N/S: Concord Road                                                                 INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                      File Name            : 91860 CC
                                                                               P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E: Hagar Road                                                             Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                              Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                       Site Code            : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                 Start Date           : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                 Page No              :1



                                          Concord Road                                      Hagar Road                                   Concord Road
                                           From North                                        From East                                    From South
                Start Time         Thru          Left        App. Total         Right             Left             App. Total    Right         Thru            App. Total       Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:30 PM
            04:30 PM             81          11                    92              17                20                  37        23           51                   74             203
             04:45 PM            74            7                   81              24                26                  50        20           38                   58             189
             05:00 PM            80            9                   89              20               42                   62        23           30                   53             204
             05:15 PM            83            7                   90              20                25                  45        23           41                   64             199
        Total Volume            318           34                  352              81              113                  194        89          160                  249             795
         % App. Total          90.3          9.7                                 41.8             58.2                           35.7         64.3
                  PHF          .958        .773                  .957            .844             .673                 .782      .967         .784                 .841             .974
                  Cars          318          32                   350              79              111                  190        87          159                  246              786
               % Cars           100        94.1                  99.4            97.5             98.2                 97.9      97.8         99.4                 98.8             98.9
       Heavy Vehicles             0            2                     2              2                 2                    4        2            1                     3               9
     % Heavy Vehicles             0          5.9                   0.6            2.5               1.8                  2.1      2.2          0.6                   1.2             1.1

                                                                                    Concord Road
                                                                               Out       In      Total
                                                                                238       350     588
                                                                                   3        2        5
                                                                                241       352     593


                                                                                       318       32
                                                                                          0        2
                                                                                       318       34
                                                                                      Thru     Left




                                                                           Peak Hour Data                                                   Out
                                                                                                                                             123

                                                                                                                                             119
                                                                                                                                                4




                                                                                          North
                                                                                                                                Right




                                                                                                                                            Hagar Road




                                                                          Peak Hour Begins at 04:30 PM
                                                                                                                                   81

                                                                                                                                   79
                                                                                                                                    2




                                                                                                                                                In
                                                                                                                                                 194

                                                                                                                                                 190




                                                                          Cars
                                                                                                                                Left




                                                                                                                                                   4
                                                                                                                                 113

                                                                                                                                 111




                                                                          Heavy Vehicles
                                                                                                                                    2




                                                                                                                                                       Total
                                                                                                                                                        317

                                                                                                                                                        309
                                                                                                                                                           8




                                                                                      Thru Right
                                                                                       159    87
                                                                                          1    2
                                                                                       160    89


                                                                                429       246     675
                                                                                   2        3        5
                                                                                431       249     680
                                                                               Out       In      Total
                                                                                    Concord Road
                                                                                        PRECISION
                                                                                        D A T A
N/S: Grove Street                                                                       INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                             File Name           : 91860 D
                                                                                     P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Colgate Road/ Hagar Road                                                   Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                    Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                    Site Code           : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                              Start Date          : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                              Page No             :1


                                                                              Groups Printed- Cars - Heavy Vehicles
                                 Grove Street                          Colgate Road                       Grove Street                                   Hagar Road
                                 From North                             From East                         From South                                     From West
           Start Time      Right      Thru          Left         Right       Thru         Left      Right      Thru                 Left       Right     Thru       Left           U-Turn        Int. Total
          07:00 AM           23            0          0             1           0            0              1             8          3            0           0            32           0              68
          07:15 AM           33            0          1             3           1            0              0             9          3            0           2            56           1             109
          07:30 AM           28            0          1             0           0            0              0             8          5            0           1            62           0             105
          07:45 AM           36            0          0             0           0            0              0            15          5            0           0            77           0             133
              Total         120            0          2             4           1            0              1            40         16            0           3           227           1             415

          08:00 AM           31            0          0             1           0            0              0            19          3            0           0            62           0             116
          08:15 AM           37            0          0             0           0            0              0            18          2            0           0            62           0             119
          08:30 AM           47            0          0             1           0            0              0            15          0            0           0            59           1             123
          08:45 AM           44            0          1             0           1            0              0            17          5            0           0            49           0             117
              Total         159            0          1             2           1            0              0            69         10            0           0           232           1             475

      Grand Total          279             0          3             6           2            0            1            109          26            0         3             459          2              890
        Apprch %           98.9            0        1.1           75          25             0          0.7            80.1       19.1            0       0.6             98.9       0.4
          Total %          31.3            0        0.3           0.7         0.2            0          0.1            12.2        2.9            0       0.3             51.6       0.2
            Cars           272             0          3             6           2            0            1            105          25            0         3             446          2             865
          % Cars           97.5            0       100           100         100             0         100             96.3       96.2            0      100              97.2       100             97.2
   Heavy Vehicles             7            0          0             0           0            0            0               4          1            0         0               13         0              25
  % Heavy Vehicles          2.5            0          0             0           0            0            0             3.7        3.8            0         0              2.8         0              2.8




                             Grove Street                            Colgate Road                               Grove Street                                Hagar Road
                              From North                              From East                                  From South                                 From West
      Start Time    Right    Thru     Left App. Total    Right       Thru     Left   App. Total     Right       Thru     Left     App. Total   Right   Thru    Left U-Turn          App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
    07:45 AM       36      0       0      36       0 0                          0            0        0           15          5         20        0       0         77         0         77          133
    08:00 AM        31     0       0       31      1 0                          0            1        0           19                    22        0       0         62         0         62          116
    08:15 AM        37     0       0       37      0 0                          0            0        0           18        2           20        0       0         62         0         62          119
    08:30 AM       47      0       0      47       1 0                          0            1        0           15        0           15        0       0         59         1         60          123
 Total Volume     151      0       0     151       2 0                          0            2        0           67       10           77        0       0        260         1        261          491
 % App. Total     100      0       0             100 0                          0                     0           87       13                     0       0       99.6       0.4
          PHF .803 .000 .000            .803 .500 .000                       .000        .500      .000         .882     .500        .875      .000    .000       .844      .250       .847         .923
          Cars    148      0       0     148       2 0                          0           2         0           65       10          75         0       0        252         1        253          478
       % Cars 98.0         0       0    98.0     100 0                          0         100         0         97.0      100        97.4         0       0       96.9       100       96.9         97.4
 Heavy Vehicles      3     0       0        3      0 0                          0           0         0            2        0           2         0       0           8        0           8          13
 % Heavy Vehicles  2.0     0       0      2.0      0 0                          0           0         0          3.0        0         2.6         0       0         3.1        0         3.1         2.6
                                                                                         PRECISION
                                                                                         D A T A
N/S: Grove Street                                                                        INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                          File Name           : 91860 D
                                                                                    P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Colgate Road/ Hagar Road                                                  Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                   Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                  Site Code           : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                            Start Date          : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                            Page No             :1


                                                                                       Groups Printed- Cars
                                 Grove Street                          Colgate Road                       Grove Street                                  Hagar Road
                                 From North                             From East                         From South                                    From West
           Start Time      Right      Thru          Left         Right       Thru         Left      Right      Thru                Left       Right     Thru       Left          U-Turn        Int. Total
          07:00 AM           21            0          0             1          0              0            1             8          2            0           0           32           0              65
          07:15 AM           33            0          1             3          1              0            0             9          3            0           2           54           1             107
          07:30 AM           27            0          1             0          0              0            0             7          5            0           1           60           0             101
          07:45 AM           35            0          0             0          0              0            0            14          5            0           0           74           0             128
              Total         116            0          2             4          1              0            1            38         15            0           3          220           1             401

          08:00 AM           30            0          0             1          0              0            0            19          3            0           0           60           0             113
          08:15 AM           36            0          0             0          0              0            0            17          2            0           0           61           0             116
          08:30 AM           47            0          0             1          0              0            0            15          0            0           0           57           1             121
          08:45 AM           43            0          1             0          1              0            0            16          5            0           0           48           0             114
              Total         156            0          1             2          1              0            0            67         10            0           0          226           1             464

       Grand Total         272             0          3             6          2              0          1            105          25            0         3            446          2              865
         Apprch %          98.9            0        1.1           75         25               0        0.8            80.2       19.1            0       0.7            98.9       0.4
          Total %          31.4            0        0.3           0.7        0.2              0        0.1            12.1        2.9            0       0.3            51.6       0.2




                             Grove Street                           Colgate Road                               Grove Street                                Hagar Road
                              From North                             From East                                  From South                                 From West
      Start Time    Right    Thru     Left App. Total    Right      Thru     Left     App. Total   Right       Thru     Left     App. Total   Right   Thru    Left U-Turn         App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
   07:45 AM       35       0       0      35       0 0                         0              0       0          14          5         19        0       0         74        0         74          128
    08:00 AM      30       0       0      30       1 0                         0              1       0          19                    22        0       0         60        0         60          113
    08:15 AM      36       0       0      36       0 0                         0              0       0          17        2           19        0       0         61        0         61          116
    08:30 AM      47       0       0      47       1 0                         0              1       0          15        0           15        0       0         57        1         58          121
 Total Volume   148        0       0     148       2 0                         0              2       0          65       10           75        0       0        252        1        253          478
 % App. Total   100        0       0             100 0                         0                      0        86.7     13.3                     0       0       99.6      0.4
         PHF .787 .000 .000             .787 .500 .000                      .000         .500      .000        .855     .500        .852      .000    .000       .851     .250       .855         .934
                                                                                       PRECISION
                                                                                       D A T A
N/S: Grove Street                                                                      INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                          File Name          : 91860 D
                                                                                    P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Colgate Road/ Hagar Road                                                  Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                   Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                Site Code          : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                          Start Date         : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                          Page No            :1


                                                                                Groups Printed- Heavy Vehicles
                                 Grove Street                          Colgate Road                     Grove Street                                  Hagar Road
                                 From North                             From East                       From South                                    From West
           Start Time      Right      Thru          Left         Right       Thru       Left      Right      Thru                Left       Right     Thru       Left         U-Turn        Int. Total
          07:00 AM             2           0          0             0          0            0              0             0         1           0           0            0          0               3
          07:15 AM             0           0          0             0          0            0              0             0         0           0           0            2          0               2
          07:30 AM             1           0          0             0          0            0              0             1         0           0           0            2          0               4
          07:45 AM             1           0          0             0          0            0              0             1         0           0           0            3          0               5
              Total            4           0          0             0          0            0              0             2         1           0           0            7          0              14

          08:00 AM             1           0          0             0          0            0              0             0         0           0           0            2          0               3
          08:15 AM             1           0          0             0          0            0              0             1         0           0           0            1          0               3
          08:30 AM             0           0          0             0          0            0              0             0         0           0           0            2          0               2
          08:45 AM             1           0          0             0          0            0              0             1         0           0           0            1          0               3
              Total            3           0          0             0          0            0              0             2         0           0           0            6          0              11

       Grand Total            7            0          0             0          0            0              0             4        1            0           0           13          0              25
         Apprch %           100            0          0             0          0            0              0            80       20            0           0          100          0
          Total %            28            0          0             0          0            0              0            16        4            0           0           52          0




                             Grove Street                           Colgate Road                               Grove Street                              Hagar Road
                              From North                             From East                                  From South                               From West
      Start Time    Right    Thru     Left App. Total    Right      Thru     Left   App. Total     Right       Thru     Left   App. Total   Right   Thru    Left U-Turn        App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
   07:30 AM        1       0       0        1      0 0                         0            0        0            1        0            1      0       0          2       0            2           4
    07:45 AM       1       0       0        1      0 0                         0            0        0            1        0            1      0       0          3       0            3           5
    08:00 AM       1       0       0        1      0 0                         0            0        0            0        0            0      0       0          2       0            2           3
    08:15 AM       1       0       0        1      0 0                         0            0        0            1        0            1      0       0          1       0            1           3
 Total Volume      4       0       0        4      0 0                         0            0        0            3        0            3      0       0          8       0            8          15
 % App. Total   100        0       0               0 0                         0                     0          100        0                   0       0        100       0
         PHF 1.000 .000 .000           1.000 .000 .000                      .000        .000      .000         .750     .000      .750      .000    .000       .667    .000       .667         .750
                                                                                 PRECISION
                                                                                 D A T A
N/S: Grove Street                                                                INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                                File Name     : 91860 D
                                                                              P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Colgate Road/ Hagar Road                                            Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                             Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                Site Code     : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                          Start Date    : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                          Page No       :1


                                                                       Groups Printed- Peds and Bicycles
                              Grove Street                       Colgate Road                          Grove Street                                        Hagar Road
                              From North                          From East                            From South                                          From West
       Start Time    Right    Thru      Left    Peds     Right    Thru     Left     Peds     Right     Thru      Left               Peds         Right     Thru     Left     Peds         Int. Total
      07:00 AM          1        0        0        0         0       0           0            0           0         0         0          0          0           0     0          0                1
      07:15 AM          0        0        0        0         0       0           0            1           0         0         0          1          0           0     0          0                2
      07:30 AM          0        0        0        0         0       0           0            1           0         1         0          2          1           0     1          2                8
      07:45 AM          0        0        0        0         0       0           0            1           0         0         2          0          0           0     0          0                3
          Total         1        0        0        0         0       0           0            3           0         1         2          3          1           0     1          2               14

      08:00 AM          1        0        0        0         0       0           0            0           0         1         0          0          0           0     0          0                 2
      08:15 AM          0        0        0        0         0       0           0            0           0         0         1          0          0           0     0          0                 1
      08:30 AM          1        0        0        0         0       0           0            0           0         0         0          2          0           0     0          1                 4
      08:45 AM          0        0        0        0         0       0           0            0           0         1         0          0          0           0     0          0                 1
          Total         2        0        0        0         0       0           0            0           0         2         1          2          0           0     0          1                 8

   Grand Total          3        0        0        0         0       0           0         3              0         3          3       5            1           0     1         3                22
     Apprch %        100         0        0        0         0       0           0      100               0      27.3       27.3    45.5           20           0   20        60
      Total %        13.6        0        0        0         0       0           0      13.6              0      13.6       13.6    22.7          4.5           0   4.5      13.6




                            Grove Street                        Colgate Road                                      Grove Street                               Hagar Road
                             From North                           From East                                        From South                                 From West
   Start Time Right Thru        Left Peds App. Total Right   Thru    Left Peds       App. Total   Right       Thru    Left Peds    App. Total   Right    Thru    Left Peds   App. Total    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:15 AM
  07:15 AM      0       0     0     0        0     0  0    0    1                           1        0    0             0      1          1        0       0       0    0            0           2
  07:30 AM      0       0     0     0        0     0  0    0    1                           1        0    1                    2          3        1               1    2            4           8
  07:45 AM      0       0     0     0        0     0  0    0    1                           1        0    0            2       0          2        0        0      0    0            0           3
  08:00 AM      1                            1     0  0    0    0                           0        0    1            0       0          1        0        0      0    0            0           2
 Total Volume   1       0     0     0        1     0  0    0    3                           3        0    2            2       3          7        1        0      1    2            4          15
 % App. Total 100       0     0     0              0  0    0 100                                     0 28.6         28.6    42.9                  25        0     25   50
        PHF .250 .000 .000 .000          .250 .000 .000 .000 .750                      .750       .000 .500         .250    .375     .583       .250     .000   .250 .250      .250          .469
                                                                                           PRECISION
                                                                                           D A T A
N/S: Grove Street                                                                          INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                             File Name              : 91860 D
                                                                                       P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Colgate Road/ Hagar Road                                                     Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                      Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                       Site Code              : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                                 Start Date             : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                                 Page No                :1



                             Grove Street                               Colgate Road                             Grove Street                                     Hagar Road
                              From North                                 From East                                From South                                      From West
      Start Time    Right    Thru     Left App. Total    Right          Thru     Left   App. Total      Right    Thru     Left    App. Total       Right     Thru    Left U-Turn          App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
    07:45 AM       36      0       0      36       0 0                            0              0        0        15        5          20            0         0     77              0        77          133
    08:00 AM        31     0       0       31      1 0                            0              1        0        19                   22            0         0     62              0        62          116
    08:15 AM        37     0       0       37      0 0                            0              0        0        18         2         20            0         0     62              0        62          119
    08:30 AM       47      0       0      47       1 0                            0              1        0        15         0         15            0         0     59              1        60          123
 Total Volume     151      0       0     151       2 0                            0              2        0        67        10         77            0         0    260              1       261          491
 % App. Total     100      0       0             100 0                            0                       0        87        13                       0         0   99.6            0.4
          PHF .803 .000 .000            .803 .500 .000                         .000        .500        .000      .882      .500      .875          .000      .000   .844           .250      .847         .923
          Cars    148      0       0     148       2 0                            0           2           0        65        10        75             0         0    252              1       253          478
       % Cars 98.0         0       0    98.0     100 0                            0         100           0      97.0       100      97.4             0         0   96.9            100      96.9         97.4
 Heavy Vehicles      3     0       0        3      0 0                            0           0           0         2         0         2             0         0       8             0          8          13
 % Heavy Vehicles  2.0     0       0      2.0      0 0                            0           0           0       3.0         0       2.6             0         0     3.1             0        3.1         2.6

                                                                                                Grove Street
                                                                                        Out         In       Total
                                                                                         319         148      467
                                                                                          10           3        13
                                                                                         329         151      480


                                                                                           148     0             0
                                                                                             3     0             0
                                                                                           151     0             0
                                                                                         Right Thru          Left




                                                                                   Peak Hour Data
                                     411
                                       11
                                     422


                                                    252
                                                       8
                                                    260
                                    Total




                                                   Left




                                                                                                                                                                    Out
                                                                                                                                               Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                              0




                                                                                                     North
                                                                    0
                                                                    0
                                                                    0




                                                                                                                                                                    Colgate Road
                                                   U-Turn Right Thru
                                      Hagar Road




                                                                                                                                                   2
                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                   2
                                            253
                                              8
                                            261




                                                                                 Peak Hour Begins at 07:45 AM
                                           In




                                                                                                                                                                         In
                                                              0
                                                              0
                                                              0




                                                                                 Cars
                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                         0


                                                                                                                                                              2
                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                              2




                                                                                 Heavy Vehicles
                                                                                                                                               Left
                                  158
                                     3
                                  161
                                 Out




                                                                                                                                                              Total
                                                       1
                                                       0
                                                       1




                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                   0


                                                                                                                                                                  2
                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                  2




                                                                                          Left Thru Right
                                                                                            10   65     0
                                                                                              0    2    0
                                                                                            10   67     0


                                                                                            0     75        75
                                                                                            0      2         2
                                                                                            0     77        77
                                                                                        Out     In       Total
                                                                                            Grove Street
                                                                                        PRECISION
                                                                                        D A T A
N/S: Grove Street                                                                       INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                              File Name            : 91860 DD
                                                                                     P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Colgate Road/ Hagar Road                                                   Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                    Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                     Site Code            : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                               Start Date           : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                               Page No              :1


                                                                              Groups Printed- Cars - Heavy Vehicles
                                 Grove Street                          Colgate Road                       Grove Street                                   Hagar Road
                                 From North                             From East                         From South                                     From West
           Start Time      Right      Thru          Left         Right       Thru         Left      Right      Thru                 Left       Right     Thru       Left             U-Turn        Int. Total
          04:00 PM           39            0          1             2           0            0              0            15          3            0            0            34            0              94
          04:15 PM           27            0          0             0           0            0              0            13          2            0            0            36            0              78
          04:30 PM           36            0          0             1           0            0              0            11          4            0            0            33            0              85
          04:45 PM           45            0          0             0           0            0              0            11          3            0            1            23            0              83
              Total         147            0          1             3           0            0              0            50         12            0            1           126            0             340

          05:00 PM           52            0          1             0           1            0              1            14          4            0            1            31            1             106
          05:15 PM           36            0          2             0           0            0              0            12          9            0            0            27            1              87
          05:30 PM           41            0          0             2           0            0              0            11          5            0            0            39            1              99
          05:45 PM           42            0          0             0           1            0              1            19          7            0            1            24            0              95
              Total         171            0          3             2           2            0              2            56         25            0            2           121            3             387

      Grand Total          318             0          4             5          2             0            2            106          37            0          3             247            3             727
        Apprch %           98.8            0        1.2          71.4       28.6             0          1.4            73.1       25.5            0        1.2             97.6        1.2
          Total %          43.7            0        0.6           0.7        0.3             0          0.3            14.6        5.1            0        0.4               34         0.4
            Cars           315             0          4             5          2             0            2            101          36            0          3             242            3            713
          % Cars           99.1            0       100           100        100              0         100             95.3       97.3            0       100                98        100             98.1
   Heavy Vehicles             3            0          0             0          0             0            0               5          1            0          0                5           0             14
  % Heavy Vehicles          0.9            0          0             0          0             0            0             4.7        2.7            0          0                2           0             1.9




                             Grove Street                            Colgate Road                               Grove Street                                Hagar Road
                              From North                              From East                                  From South                                 From West
      Start Time    Right    Thru     Left App. Total    Right       Thru     Left   App. Total     Right       Thru     Left     App. Total   Right   Thru    Left U-Turn            App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
    05:00 PM        52     0       1      53       0   1                        0            1         1          14          4         19        0        1         31          1         33          106
    05:15 PM         36    0       2       38      0   0                        0            0         0          12          9         21        0        0         27          1         28           87
    05:30 PM         41    0       0       41      2   0                        0            2         0          11          5         16        0        0         39          1         40           99
    05:45 PM         42    0       0       42      0   1                        0            1         1          19                    27        0        1         24          0         25           95
 Total Volume      171     0       3     174       2   2                        0            4         2          56       25           83        0        2        121          3        126          387
 % App. Total     98.3     0     1.7              50  50                        0                    2.4        67.5     30.1                     0      1.6          96       2.4
          PHF .822 .000 .375            .821 .250 .500                       .000        .500      .500         .737     .694        .769      .000    .500        .776      .750        .788         .913
          Cars     169     0       3     172       2   2                        0           4          2          54       25          81         0        2        119          3        124          381
       % Cars 98.8         0    100     98.9     100 100                        0         100       100         96.4      100        97.6         0     100        98.3       100        98.4         98.4
 Heavy Vehicles       2    0       0        2      0   0                        0           0          0           2        0           2         0        0           2         0           2           6
 % Heavy Vehicles   1.2    0       0      1.1      0   0                        0           0          0         3.6        0         2.4         0        0         1.7         0         1.6         1.6
                                                                                         PRECISION
                                                                                         D A T A
N/S: Grove Street                                                                        INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                           File Name           : 91860 DD
                                                                                    P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Colgate Road/ Hagar Road                                                  Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                   Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                   Site Code           : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                             Start Date          : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                             Page No             :1


                                                                                       Groups Printed- Cars
                                 Grove Street                          Colgate Road                       Grove Street                                  Hagar Road
                                 From North                             From East                         From South                                    From West
           Start Time      Right      Thru          Left         Right       Thru         Left      Right      Thru                Left       Right     Thru       Left           U-Turn        Int. Total
          04:00 PM           39            0          1             2          0              0            0            14          2            0            0           33           0              91
          04:15 PM           27            0          0             0          0              0            0            13          2            0            0           36           0              78
          04:30 PM           36            0          0             1          0              0            0            10          4            0            0           31           0              82
          04:45 PM           44            0          0             0          0              0            0            10          3            0            1           23           0              81
              Total         146            0          1             3          0              0            0            47         11            0            1          123           0             332

          05:00 PM           52            0          1             0          1              0            1            14          4            0            1           30           1             105
          05:15 PM           35            0          2             0          0              0            0            12          9            0            0           27           1              86
          05:30 PM           41            0          0             2          0              0            0            10          5            0            0           38           1              97
          05:45 PM           41            0          0             0          1              0            1            18          7            0            1           24           0              93
              Total         169            0          3             2          2              0            2            54         25            0            2          119           3             381

       Grand Total         315             0          4             5         2               0          2            101         36             0         3             242          3              713
         Apprch %          98.7            0        1.3          71.4      28.6               0        1.4            72.7       25.9            0       1.2             97.6       1.2
          Total %          44.2            0        0.6           0.7       0.3               0        0.3            14.2          5            0       0.4             33.9       0.4




                             Grove Street                           Colgate Road                               Grove Street                                Hagar Road
                              From North                             From East                                  From South                                 From West
      Start Time    Right    Thru     Left App. Total    Right      Thru     Left     App. Total   Right       Thru     Left     App. Total   Right   Thru    Left U-Turn          App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
   05:00 PM       52       0       1      53       0  1                        0              1       1          14          4         19        0        1         30        1         32          105
    05:15 PM      35       0       2      37       0  0                        0              0       0          12          9         21        0        0         27        1         28           86
    05:30 PM      41       0       0      41       2  0                        0              2       0          10          5         15        0        0         38        1         39           97
    05:45 PM      41       0       0      41       0  1                        0              1       1          18                    26        0        1         24        0         25           93
 Total Volume    169       0       3     172       2  2                        0              4       2          54       25           81        0        2        119        3        124          381
 % App. Total   98.3       0     1.7              50 50                        0                    2.5        66.7     30.9                     0      1.6         96      2.4
         PHF .813 .000 .375             .811 .250 .500                      .000         .500      .500        .750     .694        .779      .000    .500        .783     .750       .795         .907
                                                                                       PRECISION
                                                                                       D A T A
N/S: Grove Street                                                                      INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                          File Name           : 91860 DD
                                                                                    P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Colgate Road/ Hagar Road                                                  Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                   Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                Site Code           : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                          Start Date          : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                          Page No             :1


                                                                                Groups Printed- Heavy Vehicles
                                 Grove Street                          Colgate Road                     Grove Street                                  Hagar Road
                                 From North                             From East                       From South                                    From West
           Start Time      Right      Thru          Left         Right       Thru       Left      Right      Thru                Left       Right     Thru       Left          U-Turn        Int. Total
          04:00 PM             0           0          0             0          0            0              0            1          1           0           0            1           0                3
          04:15 PM             0           0          0             0          0            0              0            0          0           0           0            0           0                0
          04:30 PM             0           0          0             0          0            0              0            1          0           0           0            2           0                3
          04:45 PM             1           0          0             0          0            0              0            1          0           0           0            0           0                2
              Total            1           0          0             0          0            0              0            3          1           0           0            3           0                8

          05:00 PM             0           0          0             0          0            0              0            0          0           0           0            1           0                1
          05:15 PM             1           0          0             0          0            0              0            0          0           0           0            0           0                1
          05:30 PM             0           0          0             0          0            0              0            1          0           0           0            1           0                2
          05:45 PM             1           0          0             0          0            0              0            1          0           0           0            0           0                2
              Total            2           0          0             0          0            0              0            2          0           0           0            2           0                6

       Grand Total            3            0          0             0          0            0              0             5        1            0           0             5          0              14
         Apprch %          100             0          0             0          0            0              0          83.3     16.7            0           0          100           0
          Total %          21.4            0          0             0          0            0              0          35.7      7.1            0           0          35.7          0




                             Grove Street                           Colgate Road                               Grove Street                              Hagar Road
                              From North                             From East                                  From South                               From West
      Start Time    Right    Thru     Left App. Total    Right      Thru     Left   App. Total     Right       Thru     Left   App. Total   Right   Thru    Left U-Turn         App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:00 PM
   04:00 PM        0       0       0        0      0 0                         0            0        0            1        1            2      0       0          1        0            1            3
    04:15 PM       0       0       0        0      0 0                         0            0        0            0        0            0      0       0          0        0            0            0
    04:30 PM       0       0       0        0      0 0                         0            0        0            1        0            1      0       0          2        0            2            3
    04:45 PM       1       0       0        1      0 0                         0            0        0            1        0            1      0       0          0        0            0            2
 Total Volume      1       0       0        1      0 0                         0            0        0            3        1            4      0       0          3        0            3            8
 % App. Total   100        0       0               0 0                         0                     0           75       25                   0       0        100        0
         PHF .250 .000 .000             .250 .000 .000                      .000        .000      .000         .750     .250      .500      .000    .000       .375     .000       .375         .667
                                                                                 PRECISION
                                                                                 D A T A
N/S: Grove Street                                                                INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                            File Name        : 91860 DD
                                                                              P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Colgate Road/ Hagar Road                                            Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                             Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                            Site Code        : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                      Start Date       : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                      Page No          :1


                                                                       Groups Printed- Peds and Bicycles
                              Grove Street                       Colgate Road                          Grove Street                                       Hagar Road
                              From North                          From East                            From South                                         From West
       Start Time    Right    Thru      Left    Peds     Right    Thru     Left     Peds     Right     Thru      Left              Peds         Right     Thru     Left     Peds         Int. Total
      04:00 PM          0        0        0        0         0       0           0            0           0         0        0          0          0         0       0          1                 1
      04:15 PM          0        0        0        0         0       0           0            0           0         0        0          0          0         0       0          0                 0
      04:30 PM          0        0        0        0         0       0           0            1           0         0        0          0          0         0       0          0                 1
      04:45 PM          0        0        0        0         0       0           0            1           0         0        0          0          0         0       0          0                 1
          Total         0        0        0        0         0       0           0            2           0         0        0          0          0         0       0          1                 3

      05:00 PM          0        0        0        0         0       0           0          1             0         0        0          0          0         0       0          2                3
      05:15 PM          0        0        0        0         0       0           0          2             0         0        0          0          0         0       0          0                2
      05:30 PM          0        0        0        0         0       0           0          3             0         0        0          0          0         0       0          0                3
      05:45 PM          0        0        0        0         0       0           0          4             0         0        0          1          0         0       0          0                5
          Total         0        0        0        0         0       0           0         10             0         0        0          1          0         0       0          2               13

   Grand Total          0        0        0        0         0       0           0        12              0         0        0         1           0         0       0         3                16
     Apprch %           0        0        0        0         0       0           0       100              0         0        0      100            0         0       0      100
      Total %           0        0        0        0         0       0           0        75              0         0        0       6.2           0         0       0      18.8




                            Grove Street                        Colgate Road                                      Grove Street                              Hagar Road
                             From North                           From East                                        From South                                From West
   Start Time Right Thru        Left Peds App. Total Right   Thru    Left Peds       App. Total   Right       Thru    Left Peds   App. Total   Right    Thru    Left Peds   App. Total    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
  05:00 PM      0       0     0     0        0     0  0    0    1                          1   0    0    0    0                          0  0    0    0    2                        2           3
  05:15 PM      0       0     0     0        0     0  0    0    2                          2   0    0    0    0                          0  0    0    0    0                        0           2
  05:30 PM      0       0     0     0        0     0  0    0    3                          3   0    0    0    0                          0  0    0    0    0                        0           3
  05:45 PM      0       0     0     0        0     0  0    0    4                          4   0    0    0    1                          1  0    0    0    0                        0           5
 Total Volume   0       0     0     0        0     0  0    0   10                         10   0    0    0    1                          1  0    0    0    2                        2          13
 % App. Total   0       0     0     0              0  0    0 100                               0    0    0 100                              0    0    0 100
        PHF .000 .000 .000 .000          .000 .000 .000 .000 .625                      .625 .000 .000 .000 .250                     .250 .000 .000 .000 .250                  .250          .650
                                                                                           PRECISION
                                                                                           D A T A
N/S: Grove Street                                                                          INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                              File Name               : 91860 DD
                                                                                       P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Colgate Road/ Hagar Road                                                     Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                      Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                        Site Code               : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                                  Start Date              : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                                  Page No                 :1



                             Grove Street                               Colgate Road                             Grove Street                                     Hagar Road
                              From North                                 From East                                From South                                      From West
      Start Time    Right    Thru     Left App. Total    Right          Thru     Left   App. Total      Right    Thru     Left    App. Total       Right     Thru    Left U-Turn            App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
    05:00 PM        52     0       1      53       0   1                          0              1         1       14        4          19            0          1     31               1        33          106
    05:15 PM         36    0       2       38      0   0                          0              0         0       12        9          21            0          0     27               1        28           87
    05:30 PM         41    0       0       41      2   0                          0              2         0       11        5          16            0          0     39               1        40           99
    05:45 PM         42    0       0       42      0   1                          0              1         1       19                   27            0          1     24               0        25           95
 Total Volume      171     0       3     174       2   2                          0              4         2       56        25         83            0          2    121               3       126          387
 % App. Total     98.3     0     1.7              50  50                          0                      2.4     67.5      30.1                       0        1.6      96            2.4
          PHF .822 .000 .375            .821 .250 .500                         .000        .500        .500      .737      .694      .769          .000      .500    .776           .750       .788         .913
          Cars     169     0       3     172       2   2                          0           4            2       54        25        81             0          2    119               3       124          381
       % Cars 98.8         0    100     98.9     100 100                          0         100         100      96.4       100      97.6             0       100    98.3            100       98.4         98.4
 Heavy Vehicles       2    0       0        2      0   0                          0           0            0        2         0         2             0          0       2              0          2           6
 % Heavy Vehicles   1.2    0       0      1.1      0   0                          0           0            0      3.6         0       2.4             0          0     1.7              0        1.6         1.6

                                                                                                Grove Street
                                                                                        Out         In       Total
                                                                                         175         172      347
                                                                                            4          2         6
                                                                                         179         174      353


                                                                                           169     0             3
                                                                                             2     0             0
                                                                                           171     0             3
                                                                                         Right Thru          Left




                                                                                   Peak Hour Data
                                     320
                                        4
                                     324


                                                    119
                                                       2
                                                    121
                                    Total




                                                   Left




                                                                                                                                                                     Out
                                                                                                                                               Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                               7
                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                               7




                                                                                                     North
                                                                    2
                                                                    0
                                                                    2




                                                                                                                                                                     Colgate Road
                                                   U-Turn Right Thru
                                      Hagar Road




                                                                                                                                                   2
                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                   2
                                            124
                                              2
                                            126




                                                                                 Peak Hour Begins at 05:00 PM
                                           In




                                                                                                                                                                          In
                                                              0
                                                              0
                                                              0




                                                                                 Cars
                                                                                                                                                         2
                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                         2


                                                                                                                                                               4
                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                               4




                                                                                 Heavy Vehicles
                                                                                                                                               Left
                                  196
                                     2
                                  198
                                 Out




                                                                                                                                                               Total
                                                       3
                                                       0
                                                       3




                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                   0


                                                                                                                                                                  11

                                                                                                                                                                  11
                                                                                                                                                                   0




                                                                                          Left Thru Right
                                                                                            25   54     2
                                                                                              0    2    0
                                                                                            25   56     2


                                                                                            0     81        81
                                                                                            0      2         2
                                                                                            0     83        83
                                                                                        Out     In       Total
                                                                                            Grove Street
                                                                                               PRECISION
                                                                                               D A T A
N/S: Ashville Road/ Quinobequin Road                                                           INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                 File Name               : 91860 E
                                                                                          P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Grove Street                                                                    Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                         Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                               Site Code               : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                         Start Date              : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                         Page No                 :1


                                                                                   Groups Printed- Cars - Heavy Vehicles
                                                                                                             Quinobequin Road (Rt 128 SB
                                      Ashville Road                              Grove Street                                                              Grove Street
                                                                                                                        Ramps)
                                       From North                                 From East                                                                From West
                                                                                                                      From South
             Start Time       Right         Thru        Left             Right         Thru         Left       Right       Thru        Left        Right            Thru           Left        Int. Total
           07:00 AM              0             0             0              0           24             42            44           0         0         5              48               0            163
           07:15 AM              0             1             1              1           31             72            60           0         4        10              86               0            266
           07:30 AM              0             0             2              1           27             72            61           1         2        10              68               0            244
           07:45 AM              0             2             1              0           35             71            65           0         1         8             101               0            284
               Total             0             3             4              2          117            257           230           1         7        33             303               0            957

           08:00 AM              0             2             2              0           44             78            68           0         3        10              85               0            292
           08:15 AM              0             1             1              0           46             78            92           0         1         8              95               0            322
           08:30 AM              1             2             2              3           55             69            61           0         4         5              70               0            272
           08:45 AM              0             0             0              1           43             69            59           0         7         3              71               0            253
               Total             1             5             5              4          188            294           280           0        15        26             321               0           1139

      Grand Total                1             8          9                 6          305           551           510            1       22        59          624                   0           2096
        Apprch %               5.6          44.4        50                0.7          35.4          63.9          95.7         0.2       4.1       8.6         91.4                  0
          Total %                0           0.4        0.4               0.3          14.6          26.3          24.3           0         1       2.8         29.8                  0
            Cars                 1             8          9                 6          295           509           496            1       21        54          604                   0           2004
          % Cars              100           100        100               100           96.7          92.4          97.3         100      95.5      91.5         96.8                  0            95.6
   Heavy Vehicles                0             0          0                 0            10            42            14           0         1         5          20                   0             92
 % Heavy Vehicles                0             0          0                 0           3.3           7.6           2.7           0       4.5       8.5          3.2                  0             4.4




                                                                                                                Quinobequin Road (Rt 128 SB
                               Ashville Road                                Grove Street                                                                     Grove Street
                                                                                                                          Ramps)
                                From North                                   From East                                                                       From West
                                                                                                                        From South
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total          Right      Thru        Left    App. Total     Right   Thru     Left App. Total   Right     Thru           Left   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
    07:45 AM          0      2       1        3        0                      35         71          106          65        0      1        66       8       101          0            109        284
     08:00 AM         0      2       2        4        0                      44        78           122          68        0      3        71      10        85          0             95        292
     08:15 AM         0      1       1        2        0                      46         78          124         92         0      1        93       8         95         0            103        322
     08:30 AM         1      2       2        5        3                     55          69          127          61        0      4        65       5         70         0             75        272
 Total Volume         1      7       6       14        3                    180        296           479        286         0      9       295      31       351          0            382       1170
  % App. Total      7.1     50    42.9               0.6                   37.6       61.8                     96.9         0    3.1               8.1      91.9          0
           PHF    .250    .875    .750     .700    .250                    .818       .949          .943       .777      .000   .563      .793    .775      .869       .000           .876        .908
           Cars       1      7       6       14        3                    174        272           449        280         0      8       288      27       338          0            365       1116
       % Cars      100     100     100      100     100                    96.7       91.9          93.7       97.9         0   88.9      97.6    87.1      96.3          0           95.5        95.4
 Heavy Vehicles       0      0       0        0        0                       6         24            30          6        0      1          7      4         13         0             17          54
 % Heavy Vehicles     0      0       0        0        0                     3.3        8.1           6.3        2.1        0   11.1        2.4   12.9        3.7         0             4.5        4.6
                                                                                               PRECISION
                                                                                               D A T A
N/S: Ashville Road/ Quinobequin Road                                                           INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                 File Name              : 91860 E
                                                                                          P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Grove Street                                                                    Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                         Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                               Site Code              : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                         Start Date             : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                         Page No                :1


                                                                                          Groups Printed- Cars
                                                                                                           Quinobequin Road (Rt 128 SB
                                      Ashville Road                              Grove Street                                                              Grove Street
                                                                                                                     Ramps)
                                       From North                                 From East                                                                From West
                                                                                                                   From South
             Start Time       Right         Thru        Left             Right         Thru       Left       Right      Thru         Left          Right           Thru           Left        Int. Total
           07:00 AM              0             0             0              0           22             37            42          0          0         4             48               0            153
           07:15 AM              0             1             1              1           31             66            57          0          4        10             84               0            255
           07:30 AM              0             0             2              1           26             68            60          1          2        10             64               0            234
           07:45 AM              0             2             1              0           34             64            63          0          1         7             97               0            269
               Total             0             3             4              2          113            235           222          1          7        31            293               0            911

           08:00 AM              0             2             2              0           41             73            67          0          2         8             82               0            277
           08:15 AM              0             1             1              0           44             72            89          0          1         8             91               0            307
           08:30 AM              1             2             2              3           55             63            61          0          4         4             68               0            263
           08:45 AM              0             0             0              1           42             66            57          0          7         3             70               0            246
               Total             1             5             5              4          182            274           274          0         14        23            311               0           1093

        Grand Total              1             8          9                 6         295            509           496            1       21         54         604                  0           2004
          Apprch %             5.6          44.4        50                0.7         36.4           62.8          95.8         0.2       4.1        8.2        91.8                 0
           Total %               0           0.4        0.4               0.3         14.7           25.4          24.8           0         1        2.7        30.1                 0




                                                                                                                Quinobequin Road (Rt 128 SB
                               Ashville Road                                Grove Street                                                                     Grove Street
                                                                                                                          Ramps)
                                From North                                   From East                                                                       From West
                                                                                                                        From South
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total          Right      Thru        Left    App. Total     Right   Thru     Left App. Total   Right     Thru          Left   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
    07:45 AM         0       2       1        3       0                      34         64            98         63         0      1        64       7        97         0            104        269
    08:00 AM         0       2       2        4       0                      41         73           114         67         0      2        69       8        82         0             90        277
    08:15 AM         0       1       1        2       0                      44         72           116         89         0      1        90       8        91         0             99        307
    08:30 AM         1       2       2        5       3                      55         63           121         61         0      4        65       4        68         0             72        263
 Total Volume        1       7       6       14       3                     174        272           449        280         0      8       288      27       338         0            365       1116
 % App. Total      7.1      50    42.9              0.7                    38.8       60.6                     97.2         0    2.8               7.4      92.6         0
          PHF    .250     .875    .750     .700    .250                    .791       .932          .928       .787      .000   .500      .800    .844      .871      .000           .877        .909
                                                                                               PRECISION
                                                                                               D A T A
N/S: Ashville Road/ Quinobequin Road                                                           INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                    File Name              : 91860 E
                                                                                          P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Grove Street                                                                    Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                         Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                  Site Code              : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                            Start Date             : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                            Page No                :1


                                                                                     Groups Printed- Heavy Vehicles
                                                                                                           Quinobequin Road (Rt 128 SB
                                      Ashville Road                              Grove Street                                                                 Grove Street
                                                                                                                      Ramps)
                                       From North                                 From East                                                                   From West
                                                                                                                    From South
             Start Time       Right         Thru        Left             Right        Thru         Left      Right       Thru        Left          Right              Thru           Left        Int. Total
           07:00 AM              0             0             0              0              2             5              2        0          0             1             0               0              10
           07:15 AM              0             0             0              0              0             6              3        0          0             0             2               0              11
           07:30 AM              0             0             0              0              1             4              1        0          0             0             4               0              10
           07:45 AM              0             0             0              0              1             7              2        0          0             1             4               0              15
               Total             0             0             0              0              4            22              8        0          0             2            10               0              46

           08:00 AM              0             0             0              0              3             5              1        0          1             2             3               0              15
           08:15 AM              0             0             0              0              2             6              3        0          0             0             4               0              15
           08:30 AM              0             0             0              0              0             6              0        0          0             1             2               0               9
           08:45 AM              0             0             0              0              1             3              2        0          0             0             1               0               7
               Total             0             0             0              0              6            20              6        0          1             3            10               0              46

        Grand Total              0             0             0              0          10             42            14           0          1          5            20                  0              92
          Apprch %               0             0             0              0         19.2           80.8          93.3          0        6.7        20             80                  0
           Total %               0             0             0              0         10.9           45.7          15.2          0        1.1        5.4           21.7                 0




                                                                                                                Quinobequin Road (Rt 128 SB
                               Ashville Road                                Grove Street                                                                        Grove Street
                                                                                                                          Ramps)
                                From North                                   From East                                                                          From West
                                                                                                                        From South
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total          Right      Thru        Left    App. Total     Right   Thru     Left App. Total   Right        Thru          Left   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
    07:30 AM         0       0       0        0       0                       1          4             5          1         0      0         1       0            4         0                4         10
    07:45 AM         0       0       0        0       0                       1          7             8          2         0      0         2       1            4         0                5         15
    08:00 AM         0       0       0        0       0                       3          5             8          1         0      1         2       2            3         0                5         15
    08:15 AM         0       0       0        0       0                       2          6             8          3         0      0         3       0            4         0                4         15
 Total Volume        0       0       0        0       0                       7         22            29          7         0      1         8       3           15         0               18         55
 % App. Total        0       0       0                0                    24.1       75.9                     87.5         0   12.5              16.7         83.3         0
          PHF    .000     .000    .000     .000    .000                    .583       .786          .906       .583      .000   .250      .667    .375         .938      .000           .900        .917
                                                                                        PRECISION
                                                                                        D A T A
N/S: Ashville Road/ Quinobequin Road                                                    INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                        File Name              : 91860 E
                                                                                   P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Grove Street                                                             Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                  Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                               Site Code              : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                         Start Date             : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                         Page No                :1


                                                                          Groups Printed- Peds and Bicycles
                                                                                                 Quinobequin Road (Rt 128 SB
                                Ashville Road                        Grove Street                                                                         Grove Street
                                                                                                            Ramps)
                                 From North                           From East                                                                           From West
                                                                                                          From South
       Start Time    Right       Thru        Left   Peds   Right     Thru     Left     Peds     Right     Thru     Left    Peds                 Right      Thru           Left       Peds         Int. Total
      07:00 AM          0           0           0     0       0         1             0            0        0           0          0      0        0           2            0            0                3
      07:15 AM          0           0           0     5       0         0             0            0        0           0          0      0        0           0            0            0                5
      07:30 AM          0           0           0     3       0         0             0            0        0           0          0      1        0           2            0            0                6
      07:45 AM          0           0           0     4       0         0             0            0        0           0          0      0        0           0            0            0                4
          Total         0           0           0    12       0         1             0            0        0           0          0      1        0           4            0            0               18

      08:00 AM          0           0           0     2       0         1             0            0        0           1          0      0        0           0            0            0                4
      08:15 AM          0           0           0     3       0         0             0            0        0           0          0      0        0           0            0            1                4
      08:30 AM          0           0           0     5       0         1             1            0        0           0          0      0        0           0            0            0                7
      08:45 AM          0           0           0     3       0         0             0            0        0           0          0      0        0           0            0            0                3
          Total         0           0           0    13       0         2             1            0        0           1          0      0        0           0            0            1               18

   Grand Total          0           0           0    25       0         3            1             0        0            1         0      1        0         4              0           1                36
     Apprch %           0           0           0   100       0       75           25              0        0          50          0    50         0       80               0         20
      Total %           0           0           0   69.4      0       8.3          2.8             0        0          2.8         0    2.8        0      11.1              0         2.8




                                                                                                          Quinobequin Road (Rt 128 SB
                             Ashville Road                         Grove Street                                                                            Grove Street
                                                                                                                     Ramps)
                              From North                            From East                                                                              From West
                                                                                                                   From South
   Start Time Right Thru        Left Peds App. Total Right    Thru     Left      Peds     App. Total   Right  Thru    Left Peds App. Total     Right    Thru       Left    Peds      App. Total    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:15 AM
  07:15 AM      0       0     0     5        5     0   0   0    0                                0        0    0             0     0      0       0       0          0           0           0            5
  07:30 AM      0       0     0     3        3     0   0   0    0                                0        0    0             0     1      1       0       2          0           0           2            6
  07:45 AM      0       0     0     4        4     0   0   0    0                                0        0    0             0     0      0       0       0          0           0           0            4
  08:00 AM      0       0     0     2        2     0   1                                         1        0    1
 Total Volume   0       0     0    14      14      0   1   0    0                                1        0    1           0        1     2       0        2      0    0                     2          19
 % App. Total   0       0     0 100                0 100   0    0                                         0   50           0       50             0      100      0    0
        PHF .000 .000 .000 .700          .700 .000 .250 .000 .000                           .250       .000 .250        .000     .250   .500   .000     .250   .000 .000               .250          .792
                                                                                             PRECISION
                                                                                             D A T A
N/S: Ashville Road/ Quinobequin Road                                                         INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                          File Name            : 91860 E
                                                                                        P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Grove Street                                                                  Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                       Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                      Site Code            : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                                Start Date           : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                                Page No              :1



                                                                                                              Quinobequin Road (Rt 128 SB
                               Ashville Road                              Grove Street                                                                            Grove Street
                                                                                                                        Ramps)
                                From North                                 From East                                                                              From West
                                                                                                                      From South
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total          Right   Thru         Left     App. Total    Right   Thru     Left App. Total        Right       Thru          Left   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
    07:45 AM          0      2       1        3        0                    35         71           106         65        0      1        66            8        101             0         109        284
     08:00 AM         0      2       2        4        0                    44        78            122         68        0      3        71           10         85             0          95        292
     08:15 AM         0      1       1        2        0                    46         78           124        92         0      1        93            8          95            0         103        322
     08:30 AM         1      2       2        5        3                   55          69           127         61        0      4        65            5          70            0          75        272
 Total Volume         1      7       6       14        3                  180        296            479       286         0      9       295           31        351             0         382       1170
  % App. Total      7.1     50    42.9               0.6                 37.6       61.8                     96.9         0    3.1                    8.1       91.9             0
           PHF    .250    .875    .750     .700    .250                  .818       .949           .943      .777      .000   .563      .793         .775       .869          .000        .876        .908
           Cars       1      7       6       14        3                  174        272            449       280         0      8       288           27        338             0         365       1116
       % Cars      100     100     100      100     100                  96.7       91.9           93.7      97.9         0   88.9      97.6         87.1       96.3             0        95.5        95.4
 Heavy Vehicles       0      0       0        0        0                     6         24             30         6        0      1          7           4          13            0          17          54
 % Heavy Vehicles     0      0       0        0        0                   3.3        8.1            6.3       2.1        0   11.1        2.4        12.9         3.7            0          4.5        4.6

                                                                                                Ashville Road
                                                                                        Out           In      Total
                                                                                              3         14       17
                                                                                              0          0        0
                                                                                              3         14       17


                                                                                                 1     7        6
                                                                                                 0     0        0
                                                                                                 1     7        6
                                                                                             Right Thru     Left




                                                                                   Peak Hour Data
                                     548
                                       24
                                     572
                                    Total




                                                                                                                                                         Out
                                                        0
                                                        0
                                                        0




                                                                                                                                                          643

                                                                                                                                                          624
                                                                                                                                       Right Thru
                                                    Left




                                                                                                                                                           19




                                                                                                    North
                                     Grove Street




                                                                                                                                                         Grove Street
                                                                                                                                           3
                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                           3
                                            365
                                             17
                                            382




                                                                                  Peak Hour Begins at 07:45 AM
                                                           338
                                                            13
                                                           351
                                                    Right Thru
                                           In




                                                                                                                                                             In
                                                                                                                                              180

                                                                                                                                              174


                                                                                                                                                              479

                                                                                                                                                              449
                                                                                                                                                               30




                                                                                  Cars
                                                                                                                                                 6




                                                                                  Heavy Vehicles
                                                       27
                                                        4
                                                       31




                                                                                                                                       Left
                                  183
                                     7
                                  190




                                                                                                                                        296

                                                                                                                                        272
                                 Out




                                                                                                                                                                      Total
                                                                                                                                         24



                                                                                                                                                                      1122

                                                                                                                                                                      1073
                                                                                                                                                                         49




                                                                                             Left Thru Right
                                                                                                 8    0  280
                                                                                                 1    0    6
                                                                                                 9    0  286


                                                                                        306       288      594
                                                                                         28         7        35
                                                                                        334       295      629
                                                                                       Out       In       Total
                                                                                 Quinobequin Road (Rt 128 SB Ramps)
                                                                                               PRECISION
                                                                                               D A T A
N/S: Ashville Road/ Quinobequin Road                                                           INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                 File Name               : 91860 EE
                                                                                          P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Grove Street                                                                    Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                         Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                               Site Code               : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                         Start Date              : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                         Page No                 :1


                                                                                   Groups Printed- Cars - Heavy Vehicles
                                                                                                             Quinobequin Road (Rt 128 SB
                                      Ashville Road                              Grove Street                                                              Grove Street
                                                                                                                        Ramps)
                                       From North                                 From East                                                                From West
                                                                                                                      From South
             Start Time       Right         Thru        Left             Right         Thru         Left       Right       Thru        Left        Right            Thru           Left        Int. Total
           04:00 PM              0             2             1              2           40             80              24         0         3         5              49               1            207
           04:15 PM              0             2             1              1           37             87              18         1         4         9              50               1            211
           04:30 PM              0             0             0              1           45             61              25         0         2         8              43               1            186
           04:45 PM              0             0             0              2           58             98              22         0         3         4              35               0            222
               Total             0             4             2              6          180            326              89         1        12        26             177               3            826

           05:00 PM              0             1             3              1           81            109            35           0         7        19              45               0            301
           05:15 PM              1             1             0              1           68            116            27           0         4        10              44               0            272
           05:30 PM              0             0             1              1           77            100            40           0         2        11              55               0            287
           05:45 PM              1             0             2              3           57             91            26           1         8         5              50               0            244
               Total             2             2             6              6          283            416           128           1        21        45             194               0           1104

      Grand Total                2             6          8               12           463           742           217             2       33        71         371                   3           1930
        Apprch %              12.5          37.5        50                  1           38            61           86.1          0.8     13.1        16         83.4                0.7
          Total %              0.1           0.3        0.4               0.6            24          38.4          11.2          0.1       1.7       3.7        19.2                0.2
            Cars                 2             6          8               11           457           716           209             2       33        71          356                  3           1874
          % Cars              100           100        100               91.7          98.7          96.5          96.3          100      100       100           96               100             97.1
   Heavy Vehicles                0             0          0                 1             6            26             8            0         0         0          15                  0             56
 % Heavy Vehicles                0             0          0               8.3           1.3           3.5           3.7            0         0         0           4                  0             2.9




                                                                                                                Quinobequin Road (Rt 128 SB
                               Ashville Road                                Grove Street                                                                     Grove Street
                                                                                                                          Ramps)
                                From North                                   From East                                                                       From West
                                                                                                                        From South
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total          Right      Thru        Left    App. Total     Right   Thru     Left App. Total   Right     Thru           Left   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
    05:00 PM         0       1       3        4       1                      81        109           191          35         0      7       42      19         45         0             64        301
     05:15 PM        1       1       0        2       1                       68       116           185          27         0      4       31      10         44         0             54        272
     05:30 PM        0       0       1        1       1                       77       100           178         40          0      2       42      11        55          0             66        287
     05:45 PM        1       0       2        3       3                       57         91          151          26         1      8       35       5         50         0             55        244
 Total Volume        2       2       6       10       6                     283        416           705        128          1     21      150      45       194          0            239       1104
  % App. Total      20      20      60              0.9                    40.1          59                    85.3        0.7     14             18.8      81.2          0
           PHF    .500    .500    .500     .625    .500                    .873       .897          .923       .800      .250    .656     .893    .592      .882       .000           .905        .917
           Cars      2       2       6       10       5                     279        403           687        124          1     21      146      45       187          0            232       1075
       % Cars      100     100     100      100    83.3                    98.6       96.9          97.4       96.9       100     100     97.3     100      96.4          0           97.1        97.4
 Heavy Vehicles      0       0       0        0       1                        4         13            18          4         0      0         4      0          7         0               7         29
 % Heavy Vehicles    0       0       0        0    16.7                      1.4        3.1           2.6        3.1         0      0       2.7      0        3.6         0             2.9        2.6
                                                                                               PRECISION
                                                                                               D A T A
N/S: Ashville Road/ Quinobequin Road                                                           INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                 File Name              : 91860 EE
                                                                                          P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Grove Street                                                                    Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                         Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                               Site Code              : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                         Start Date             : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                         Page No                :1


                                                                                          Groups Printed- Cars
                                                                                                           Quinobequin Road (Rt 128 SB
                                      Ashville Road                              Grove Street                                                              Grove Street
                                                                                                                     Ramps)
                                       From North                                 From East                                                                From West
                                                                                                                   From South
             Start Time       Right         Thru        Left             Right         Thru       Left       Right      Thru         Left          Right           Thru           Left        Int. Total
           04:00 PM              0             2             1              2           40             78             24         0          3         5             45               1            201
           04:15 PM              0             2             1              1           37             83             18         1          4         9             50               1            207
           04:30 PM              0             0             0              1           44             59             22         0          2         8             40               1            177
           04:45 PM              0             0             0              2           57             93             21         0          3         4             34               0            214
               Total             0             4             2              6          178            313             85         1         12        26            169               3            799

           05:00 PM              0             1             3              1           80            106            34          0          7        19             42               0            293
           05:15 PM              1             1             0              1           66            112            26          0          4        10             43               0            264
           05:30 PM              0             0             1              1           77             97            40          0          2        11             53               0            282
           05:45 PM              1             0             2              2           56             88            24          1          8         5             49               0            236
               Total             2             2             6              5          279            403           124          1         21        45            187               0           1075

        Grand Total              2             6          8               11          457            716           209            2        33       71          356                 3            1874
          Apprch %            12.5          37.5        50                0.9         38.6           60.5          85.7         0.8      13.5      16.5         82.8              0.7
           Total %             0.1           0.3        0.4               0.6         24.4           38.2          11.2         0.1       1.8       3.8          19               0.2




                                                                                                                Quinobequin Road (Rt 128 SB
                               Ashville Road                                Grove Street                                                                     Grove Street
                                                                                                                          Ramps)
                                From North                                   From East                                                                       From West
                                                                                                                        From South
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total          Right      Thru        Left    App. Total     Right   Thru     Left App. Total   Right     Thru          Left   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
    05:00 PM         0       1       3        4       1                      80        106           187         34         0      7        41      19        42         0             61        293
    05:15 PM         1       1       0        2       1                      66        112           179         26         0      4        30      10        43         0             53        264
    05:30 PM         0       0       1        1       1                      77         97           175         40         0      2        42      11        53         0             64        282
    05:45 PM         1       0       2        3       2                      56         88           146         24         1      8        33       5        49         0             54        236
 Total Volume        2       2       6       10       5                     279        403           687        124         1     21       146      45       187         0            232       1075
 % App. Total      20       20      60              0.7                    40.6       58.7                     84.9       0.7   14.4              19.4      80.6         0
          PHF    .500     .500    .500     .625    .625                    .872       .900          .918       .775      .250   .656      .869    .592      .882      .000           .906        .917
                                                                                               PRECISION
                                                                                               D A T A
N/S: Ashville Road/ Quinobequin Road                                                           INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                    File Name              : 91860 EE
                                                                                          P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Grove Street                                                                    Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                         Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                  Site Code              : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                            Start Date             : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                            Page No                :1


                                                                                     Groups Printed- Heavy Vehicles
                                                                                                           Quinobequin Road (Rt 128 SB
                                      Ashville Road                              Grove Street                                                                 Grove Street
                                                                                                                      Ramps)
                                       From North                                 From East                                                                   From West
                                                                                                                    From South
             Start Time       Right         Thru        Left             Right        Thru         Left      Right       Thru        Left          Right              Thru           Left        Int. Total
           04:00 PM              0             0             0              0              0             2              0        0          0             0             4               0               6
           04:15 PM              0             0             0              0              0             4              0        0          0             0             0               0               4
           04:30 PM              0             0             0              0              1             2              3        0          0             0             3               0               9
           04:45 PM              0             0             0              0              1             5              1        0          0             0             1               0               8
               Total             0             0             0              0              2            13              4        0          0             0             8               0              27

           05:00 PM              0             0             0              0              1             3              1        0          0             0             3               0               8
           05:15 PM              0             0             0              0              2             4              1        0          0             0             1               0               8
           05:30 PM              0             0             0              0              0             3              0        0          0             0             2               0               5
           05:45 PM              0             0             0              1              1             3              2        0          0             0             1               0               8
               Total             0             0             0              1              4            13              4        0          0             0             7               0              29

        Grand Total              0             0             0              1            6            26              8          0          0             0         15                  0              56
          Apprch %               0             0             0              3         18.2           78.8          100           0          0             0        100                  0
           Total %               0             0             0            1.8         10.7           46.4          14.3          0          0             0        26.8                 0




                                                                                                                Quinobequin Road (Rt 128 SB
                               Ashville Road                                Grove Street                                                                        Grove Street
                                                                                                                          Ramps)
                                From North                                   From East                                                                          From West
                                                                                                                        From South
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total          Right      Thru        Left    App. Total     Right   Thru     Left App. Total   Right        Thru          Left   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:30 PM
    04:30 PM         0       0       0        0       0                       1          2             3          3         0      0         3       0            3         0               3           9
    04:45 PM         0       0       0        0       0                       1          5             6          1         0      0         1       0            1         0               1           8
    05:00 PM         0       0       0        0       0                       1          3             4          1         0      0         1       0            3         0               3           8
    05:15 PM         0       0       0        0       0                       2          4             6          1         0      0         1       0            1         0               1           8
 Total Volume        0       0       0        0       0                       5         14            19          6         0      0         6       0            8         0               8          33
 % App. Total        0       0       0                0                    26.3       73.7                      100         0      0                 0          100         0
          PHF    .000     .000    .000     .000    .000                    .625       .700          .792       .500      .000   .000      .500    .000         .667      .000           .667        .917
                                                                                        PRECISION
                                                                                        D A T A
N/S: Ashville Road/ Quinobequin Road                                                    INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                      File Name           : 91860 EE
                                                                                   P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Grove Street                                                             Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                  Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                             Site Code           : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                       Start Date          : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                       Page No             :1


                                                                          Groups Printed- Peds and Bicycles
                                                                                                 Quinobequin Road (Rt 128 SB
                                Ashville Road                        Grove Street                                                                       Grove Street
                                                                                                            Ramps)
                                 From North                           From East                                                                         From West
                                                                                                          From South
       Start Time    Right       Thru        Left   Peds   Right     Thru     Left     Peds     Right     Thru     Left    Peds               Right     Thru            Left    Peds         Int. Total
      04:00 PM          0           0           0     5       0         0             0            0        0          0      0        0         0           0            0         0                5
      04:15 PM          0           0           0     6       0         0             0            0        0          0      0        0         0           0            0         0                6
      04:30 PM          0           0           0     4       0         1             1            0        0          0      0        0         0           0            0         0                6
      04:45 PM          0           0           0     4       0         0             0            0        0          0      0        0         0           0            0         0                4
          Total         0           0           0    19       0         1             1            0        0          0      0        0         0           0            0         0               21

      05:00 PM          0           0           0     3       0         1             0            0        0          0      0        1         0           0            0         0                5
      05:15 PM          0           0           0     4       0         0             1            0        0          0      0        0         0           0            0         0                5
      05:30 PM          0           0           0     1       0         0             0            0        0          0      0        0         0           0            0         0                1
      05:45 PM          0           0           0     7       0         0             0            0        0          0      0        0         0           0            0         1                8
          Total         0           0           0    15       0         1             1            0        0          0      0        1         0           0            0         1               19

   Grand Total          0           0           0    34       0        2             2             0        0          0      0         1        0           0            0        1                40
     Apprch %           0           0           0   100       0       50            50             0        0          0      0      100         0           0            0     100
      Total %           0           0           0    85       0        5             5             0        0          0      0       2.5        0           0            0      2.5




                                                                                                          Quinobequin Road (Rt 128 SB
                             Ashville Road                         Grove Street                                                                          Grove Street
                                                                                                                     Ramps)
                              From North                            From East                                                                            From West
                                                                                                                   From South
   Start Time Right Thru        Left Peds App. Total Right    Thru     Left      Peds     App. Total   Right  Thru    Left Peds App. Total   Right    Thru       Left    Peds   App. Total    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:00 PM
  04:00 PM      0       0     0     5        5     0  0    0    0                                0  0    0    0    0                    0    0    0    0    0                           0           5
  04:15 PM      0       0     0     6        6     0  0    0    0                                0  0    0    0    0                    0    0    0    0    0                           0           6
  04:30 PM      0       0     0     4        4     0  1    1                                     2  0    0    0    0                    0    0    0    0    0                           0           6
  04:45 PM      0       0     0     4        4     0  0    0    0                                0  0    0    0    0                    0    0    0    0    0                           0           4
 Total Volume   0       0     0    19      19      0  1    1    0                                2  0    0    0    0                    0    0    0    0    0                           0          21
 % App. Total   0       0     0 100                0 50   50    0                                   0    0    0    0                         0    0    0    0
        PHF .000 .000 .000 .792          .792 .000 .250 .250 .000                           .250 .000 .000 .000 .000                 .000 .000 .000 .000 .000                     .000          .875
                                                                                              PRECISION
                                                                                              D A T A
N/S: Ashville Road/ Quinobequin Road                                                          INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                          File Name            : 91860 EE
                                                                                         P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Grove Street                                                                   Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                        Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                       Site Code            : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                                 Start Date           : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                                 Page No              :1



                                                                                                               Quinobequin Road (Rt 128 SB
                               Ashville Road                               Grove Street                                                                            Grove Street
                                                                                                                         Ramps)
                                From North                                  From East                                                                              From West
                                                                                                                       From South
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total           Right   Thru         Left     App. Total    Right   Thru     Left App. Total        Right       Thru          Left   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
    05:00 PM         0       1       3        4       1                     81        109            191         35         0      7       42           19          45            0          64        301
     05:15 PM        1       1       0        2       1                      68       116            185         27         0      4       31           10          44            0          54        272
     05:30 PM        0       0       1        1       1                      77       100            178        40          0      2       42           11         55             0          66        287
     05:45 PM        1       0       2        3       3                      57         91           151         26         1      8       35            5          50            0          55        244
 Total Volume        2       2       6       10       6                    283        416            705       128          1     21      150           45        194             0         239       1104
  % App. Total      20      20      60              0.9                   40.1          59                    85.3        0.7     14                  18.8       81.2             0
           PHF    .500    .500    .500     .625    .500                   .873       .897           .923      .800      .250    .656     .893         .592       .882          .000        .905        .917
           Cars      2       2       6       10       5                    279        403            687       124          1     21      146           45        187             0         232       1075
       % Cars      100     100     100      100    83.3                   98.6       96.9           97.4      96.9       100     100     97.3          100       96.4             0        97.1        97.4
 Heavy Vehicles      0       0       0        0       1                       4         13             18         4         0      0         4           0           7            0            7         29
 % Heavy Vehicles    0       0       0        0    16.7                     1.4        3.1            2.6       3.1         0      0       2.7           0         3.6            0          2.9        2.6

                                                                                                 Ashville Road
                                                                                         Out           In      Total
                                                                                               6         10       16
                                                                                               1          0        1
                                                                                               7         10       17


                                                                                                  2     2        6
                                                                                                  0     0        0
                                                                                                  2     2        6
                                                                                              Right Thru     Left




                                                                                    Peak Hour Data
                                     534
                                       11
                                     545
                                    Total




                                                                                                                                                          Out
                                                        0
                                                        0
                                                        0




                                                                                                                                                           328

                                                                                                                                                           317
                                                                                                                                        Right Thru
                                                    Left




                                                                                                                                                            11




                                                                                                     North
                                     Grove Street




                                                                                                                                                          Grove Street
                                                                                                                                            6
                                                                                                                                            1
                                                                                                                                            5
                                            232
                                              7
                                            239




                                                                                   Peak Hour Begins at 05:00 PM
                                                           187
                                                              7
                                                           194
                                                    Right Thru
                                           In




                                                                                                                                                              In
                                                                                                                                               283

                                                                                                                                               279


                                                                                                                                                               705

                                                                                                                                                               687
                                                                                                                                                                18




                                                                                   Cars
                                                                                                                                                  4




                                                                                   Heavy Vehicles
                                                       45
                                                        0
                                                       45




                                                                                                                                        Left
                                  302
                                     4
                                  306




                                                                                                                                         416

                                                                                                                                         403
                                 Out




                                                                                                                                                                       Total
                                                                                                                                          13



                                                                                                                                                                       1033

                                                                                                                                                                       1004
                                                                                                                                                                          29




                                                                                              Left Thru Right
                                                                                                21     1  124
                                                                                                  0    0    4
                                                                                                21     1  128


                                                                                         450       146      596
                                                                                          13         4        17
                                                                                         463       150      613
                                                                                        Out       In       Total
                                                                                  Quinobequin Road (Rt 128 SB Ramps)
                                                                                            PRECISION
                                                                                            D A T A
N/S: I-95/128 NB Ramps                                                                      INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                      File Name           : 91860 F
                                                                                        P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Grove Street                                                                  Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                       Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                 Site Code           : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                           Start Date          : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                           Page No             :1


                                                                                Groups Printed- Cars - Heavy Vehicles
                                I-95/128 NB Onramp                             Grove Street                   I-95/128 NB Offramp                        Grove Street
                                     From North                                 From East                          From South                            From West
             Start Time       Right       Thru          Left             Right       Thru        Left       Right       Thru              Left     Right       Thru              Left        Int. Total
           07:00 AM              0            0              0             16         69               0          118           0          3              0            85         12             303
           07:15 AM              0            0              0             25         89               0          132           2         14              0           124         17             403
           07:30 AM              0            0              0             16         81               0           70           1          7              0           121          7             303
           07:45 AM              0            0              0             24        101               0           76           0          6              0           158         11             376
               Total             0            0              0             81        340               0          396           3         30              0           488         47            1385

           08:00 AM              0            0              0             21        111               0           46           1          8              0           150          8             345
           08:15 AM              0            0              0             23        105               0          128           0         13              0           181          5             455
           08:30 AM              0            0              0             26        110               0          113           1         17              0           131         11             409
           08:45 AM              0            0              0             11         98               0          100           0         13              0           122         16             360
               Total             0            0              0             81        424               0          387           2         51              0           584         40            1569

      Grand Total                0            0              0           162        764                0         783            5        81               0      1072             87            2954
        Apprch %                 0            0              0           17.5       82.5               0         90.1         0.6        9.3              0       92.5           7.5
          Total %                0            0              0            5.5       25.9               0         26.5         0.2        2.7              0       36.3           2.9
            Cars                 0            0              0           145        717                0         757            3         78              0      1036             87            2823
          % Cars                 0            0              0           89.5       93.8               0         96.7         60        96.3              0       96.6           100             95.6
   Heavy Vehicles                0            0              0             17         47               0           26           2          3              0         36             0             131
 % Heavy Vehicles                0            0              0           10.5        6.2               0          3.3         40         3.7              0        3.4             0              4.4




                           I-95/128 NB Onramp                               Grove Street                           I-95/128 NB Offramp                        Grove Street
                                From North                                   From East                                  From South                             From West
      Start Time     Right     Thru     Left App. Total          Right      Thru     Left    App. Total      Right     Thru     Left App. Total   Right       Thru     Left     App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
    07:45 AM         0       0       0        0      24                     101        0          125          76         0      6         82        0         158        11         169        376
     08:00 AM        0       0       0        0      21                     111        0          132           46        1      8         55        0         150          8        158        345
     08:15 AM        0       0       0        0      23                     105        0          128         128         0     13        141        0         181          5        186        455
     08:30 AM        0       0       0        0      26                     110        0          136         113         1     17        131        0         131        11         142        409
 Total Volume        0       0       0        0      94                     427        0          521         363         2     44        409        0         620         35        655       1585
  % App. Total       0       0       0               18                       82       0                     88.8       0.5   10.8                   0        94.7        5.3
           PHF    .000    .000    .000     .000    .904                    .962     .000          .958       .709      .500   .647        .725    .000        .856      .795        .880        .871
           Cars      0       0       0        0      84                     401        0           485        352         1     42         395       0         599        35         634       1514
       % Cars        0       0       0        0    89.4                    93.9        0          93.1       97.0      50.0   95.5        96.6       0        96.6       100        96.8        95.5
 Heavy Vehicles      0       0       0        0      10                       26       0             36         11        1      2          14       0           21         0         21          71
 % Heavy Vehicles    0       0       0        0    10.6                      6.1       0            6.9        3.0     50.0    4.5          3.4      0          3.4         0         3.2        4.5
                                                                                            PRECISION
                                                                                            D A T A
N/S: I-95/128 NB Ramps                                                                      INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                    File Name          : 91860 F
                                                                                       P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Grove Street                                                                 Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                      Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                               Site Code          : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                         Start Date         : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                         Page No            :1


                                                                                         Groups Printed- Cars
                                I-95/128 NB Onramp                             Grove Street                   I-95/128 NB Offramp                       Grove Street
                                     From North                                 From East                          From South                           From West
             Start Time       Right       Thru          Left             Right       Thru        Left       Right       Thru             Left     Right       Thru            Left        Int. Total
           07:00 AM              0            0              0             16         61              0          114           0          3              0           83        12             289
           07:15 AM              0            0              0             22         84              0          127           1         14              0          119        17             384
           07:30 AM              0            0              0             13         77              0           69           1          7              0          116         7             290
           07:45 AM              0            0              0             23         93              0           72           0          6              0          150        11             355
               Total             0            0              0             74        315              0          382           2         30              0          468        47            1318

           08:00 AM              0            0              0             18        105              0           45           1          6              0          146         8             329
           08:15 AM              0            0              0             19         97              0          125           0         13              0          174         5             433
           08:30 AM              0            0              0             24        106              0          110           0         17              0          129        11             397
           08:45 AM              0            0              0             10         94              0           95           0         12              0          119        16             346
               Total             0            0              0             71        402              0          375           1         48              0          568        40            1505

        Grand Total              0            0              0           145        717               0         757            3         78              0      1036          87             2823
          Apprch %               0            0              0           16.8       83.2              0         90.3         0.4         9.3             0       92.3         7.7
           Total %               0            0              0            5.1       25.4              0         26.8         0.1         2.8             0       36.7         3.1




                           I-95/128 NB Onramp                               Grove Street                          I-95/128 NB Offramp                        Grove Street
                                From North                                   From East                                 From South                             From West
      Start Time     Right     Thru     Left App. Total          Right      Thru     Left    App. Total     Right     Thru     Left App. Total   Right       Thru     Left   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
    07:45 AM         0       0       0        0      23                      93        0         116          72         0      6         78        0         150       11        161        355
    08:00 AM         0       0       0        0      18                     105        0         123          45         1      6         52        0         146        8        154        329
    08:15 AM         0       0       0        0      19                      97        0         116         125         0     13        138        0         174        5        179        433
    08:30 AM         0       0       0        0      24                     106        0         130         110         0     17        127        0         129       11        140        397
 Total Volume        0       0       0        0      84                     401        0         485         352         1     42        395        0         599       35        634       1514
 % App. Total        0       0       0             17.3                    82.7        0                    89.1       0.3   10.6                   0        94.5      5.5
          PHF    .000     .000    .000     .000    .875                    .946     .000         .933       .704      .250   .618        .716    .000        .861     .795       .885        .874
                                                                                            PRECISION
                                                                                            D A T A
N/S: I-95/128 NB Ramps                                                                      INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                    File Name          : 91860 F
                                                                                       P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Grove Street                                                                 Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                      Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                               Site Code          : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                         Start Date         : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                         Page No            :1


                                                                                   Groups Printed- Heavy Vehicles
                                I-95/128 NB Onramp                             Grove Street                  I-95/128 NB Offramp                        Grove Street
                                     From North                                 From East                         From South                            From West
             Start Time       Right       Thru          Left             Right       Thru        Left      Right       Thru              Left     Right       Thru            Left        Int. Total
           07:00 AM              0            0              0              0          8              0             4          0           0             0           2           0              14
           07:15 AM              0            0              0              3          5              0             5          1           0             0           5           0              19
           07:30 AM              0            0              0              3          4              0             1          0           0             0           5           0              13
           07:45 AM              0            0              0              1          8              0             4          0           0             0           8           0              21
               Total             0            0              0              7         25              0            14          1           0             0          20           0              67

           08:00 AM              0            0              0             3           6              0             1          0           2             0           4           0              16
           08:15 AM              0            0              0             4           8              0             3          0           0             0           7           0              22
           08:30 AM              0            0              0             2           4              0             3          1           0             0           2           0              12
           08:45 AM              0            0              0             1           4              0             5          0           1             0           3           0              14
               Total             0            0              0            10          22              0            12          1           3             0          16           0              64

        Grand Total              0            0              0            17         47               0           26           2           3             0       36              0            131
          Apprch %               0            0              0           26.6       73.4              0         83.9         6.5         9.7             0      100              0
           Total %               0            0              0            13        35.9              0         19.8         1.5         2.3             0      27.5             0




                           I-95/128 NB Onramp                               Grove Street                          I-95/128 NB Offramp                        Grove Street
                                From North                                   From East                                 From South                             From West
      Start Time     Right     Thru     Left App. Total          Right      Thru     Left    App. Total     Right     Thru     Left App. Total   Right       Thru     Left   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
    07:30 AM         0       0       0        0       3                       4        0            7          1         0      0           1       0           5       0             5         13
    07:45 AM         0       0       0        0       1                       8        0            9          4         0      0           4       0           8       0             8         21
    08:00 AM         0       0       0        0       3                       6        0            9          1         0      2           3       0           4       0             4         16
    08:15 AM         0       0       0        0       4                       8        0           12          3         0      0           3       0           7       0             7         22
 Total Volume        0       0       0        0      11                      26        0           37          9         0      2          11       0          24       0            24         72
 % App. Total        0       0       0             29.7                    70.3        0                    81.8         0   18.2                   0         100       0
          PHF    .000     .000    .000     .000    .688                    .813     .000         .771       .563      .000   .250        .688    .000        .750    .000        .750        .818
                                                                                  PRECISION
                                                                                  D A T A
N/S: I-95/128 NB Ramps                                                            INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                              File Name        : 91860 F
                                                                               P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Grove Street                                                         Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                              Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                               Site Code        : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                         Start Date       : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                         Page No          :1


                                                                       Groups Printed- Peds and Bicycles
                           I-95/128 NB Onramp                     Grove Street                     I-95/128 NB Offramp                                       Grove Street
                                From North                         From East                            From South                                           From West
       Start Time    Right      Thru     Left    Peds     Right   Thru      Left    Peds     Right      Thru     Left                 Peds         Right     Thru      Left    Peds         Int. Total
      07:00 AM           0        0        0        2         0       1           0            0           1          0        0           0          0         2        0         0                6
      07:15 AM           0        0        0        3         0       0           0            0           0          0        0           0          0         0        0         0                3
      07:30 AM           0        0        0        2         0       0           0            0           0          0        0           0          0         2        0         0                4
      07:45 AM           0        0        0        3         0       0           0            0           0          0        0           0          0         0        0         0                3
          Total          0        0        0       10         0       1           0            0           1          0        0           0          0         4        0         0               16

      08:00 AM           0        0        0        1         0       1           0            0           0          0        0           0          0         0        0         0                2
      08:15 AM           0        0        0        6         0       2           0            0           0          0        0           0          0         1        0         0                9
      08:30 AM           0        0        0        3         0       1           0            0           0          0        0           0          0         0        0         0                4
      08:45 AM           0        0        0        0         0       0           0            0           0          0        0           0          0         0        0         1                1
          Total          0        0        0       10         0       4           0            0           0          0        0           0          0         1        0         1               16

   Grand Total           0        0        0      20          0      5            0            0         1            0        0           0          0         5        0        1                32
     Apprch %            0        0        0     100          0   100             0            0      100             0        0           0          0      83.3        0     16.7
      Total %            0        0        0     62.5         0   15.6            0            0       3.1            0        0           0          0      15.6        0      3.1




                         I-95/128 NB Onramp                       Grove Street                                 I-95/128 NB Offramp                             Grove Street
                              From North                           From East                                        From South                                  From West
   Start Time Right Thru         Left Peds App. Total Right   Thru    Left Peds       App. Total   Right       Thru    Left Peds     App. Total   Right    Thru    Left Peds   App. Total    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
  07:30 AM      0       0     0     2        2     0   0   0    0                            0  0    0    0    0                            0  0    2    0    0                        2           4
  07:45 AM      0       0     0     3        3     0   0   0    0                            0  0    0    0    0                            0  0    0    0    0                        0           3
  08:00 AM      0       0     0     1        1     0   1   0    0                            1  0    0    0    0                            0  0    0    0    0                        0           2
  08:15 AM      0       0     0     6        6     0   2                                     2  0    0    0    0                            0  0    1    0    0                        1           9
 Total Volume   0       0     0    12      12      0   3   0    0                            3  0    0    0    0                            0  0    3    0    0                        3          18
 % App. Total   0       0     0 100                0 100   0    0                               0    0    0    0                               0 100     0    0
        PHF .000 .000 .000 .500          .500 .000 .375 .000 .000                       .375 .000 .000 .000 .000                       .000 .000 .375 .000 .000                  .375          .500
                                                                                         PRECISION
                                                                                         D A T A
N/S: I-95/128 NB Ramps                                                                   INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                            File Name            : 91860 F
                                                                                      P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Grove Street                                                                Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                     Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                    Site Code            : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                              Start Date           : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                              Page No              :1



                           I-95/128 NB Onramp                            Grove Street                            I-95/128 NB Offramp                           Grove Street
                                From North                                From East                                   From South                                From West
      Start Time     Right     Thru     Left App. Total          Right   Thru     Left     App. Total      Right     Thru     Left App. Total      Right       Thru     Left        App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
    07:45 AM         0       0       0        0      24                   101        0          125          76         0      6         82           0        158            11         169        376
     08:00 AM        0       0       0        0      21                   111        0          132           46        1      8         55           0        150              8        158        345
     08:15 AM        0       0       0        0      23                   105        0          128         128         0     13        141           0        181              5        186        455
     08:30 AM        0       0       0        0      26                   110        0          136         113         1     17        131           0        131            11         142        409
 Total Volume        0       0       0        0      94                   427        0          521         363         2     44        409           0        620             35        655       1585
  % App. Total       0       0       0               18                     82       0                     88.8       0.5   10.8                      0       94.7            5.3
           PHF    .000    .000    .000     .000    .904                  .962     .000          .958       .709      .500   .647        .725       .000       .856          .795        .880        .871
           Cars      0       0       0        0      84                   401        0           485        352         1     42         395          0        599            35         634       1514
       % Cars        0       0       0        0    89.4                  93.9        0          93.1       97.0      50.0   95.5        96.6          0       96.6           100        96.8        95.5
 Heavy Vehicles      0       0       0        0      10                     26       0             36         11        1      2          14          0          21             0         21          71
 % Heavy Vehicles    0       0       0        0    10.6                    6.1       0            6.9        3.0     50.0    4.5          3.4         0         3.4             0         3.2        4.5

                                                                                       I-95/128 NB Onramp
                                                                                      Out       In     Total
                                                                                       120         0    120
                                                                                         11        0      11
                                                                                       131         0    131


                                                                                             0     0          0
                                                                                             0     0          0
                                                                                             0     0          0
                                                                                         Right Thru       Left




                                                                                  Peak Hour Data
                                    1077
                                       49
                                    1126
                                    Total




                                                                                                                                                       Out
                                                      35
                                                        0
                                                      35




                                                                                                                                                        983

                                                                                                                                                        951
                                                                                                                                      Right Thru
                                                    Left




                                                                                                                                                         32




                                                                                                 North
                                                                                                                                         94
                                                                                                                                         10
                                                                                                                                         84
                                     Grove Street




                                                                                                                                                       Grove Street
                                            634
                                             21
                                            655




                                                                                 Peak Hour Begins at 07:45 AM
                                                           599
                                                            21
                                                           620
                                                    Right Thru
                                           In




                                                                                                                                                           In
                                                                                                                                             427

                                                                                                                                             401


                                                                                                                                                            521

                                                                                                                                                            485
                                                                                                                                              26




                                                                                                                                                             36




                                                                                 Cars
                                                                                 Heavy Vehicles
                                                        0
                                                        0
                                                        0




                                                                                                                                      Left
                                  443
                                   28
                                  471
                                 Out




                                                                                                                                                                    Total
                                                                                                                                                                    1504

                                                                                                                                                                    1436
                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                          0



                                                                                                                                                                       68




                                                                                         Left Thru Right
                                                                                           42     1  352
                                                                                             2    1   11
                                                                                           44     2  363


                                                                                           0     395     395
                                                                                           0      14       14
                                                                                           0     409     409
                                                                                      Out       In      Total
                                                                                       I-95/128 NB Offramp
                                                                                            PRECISION
                                                                                            D A T A
N/S: I-95/128 NB Ramps                                                                      INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                      File Name          : 91860 FF
                                                                                        P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Grove Street                                                                  Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                       Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                 Site Code          : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                           Start Date         : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                           Page No            :1


                                                                                Groups Printed- Cars - Heavy Vehicles
                                I-95/128 NB Onramp                             Grove Street                   I-95/128 NB Offramp                        Grove Street
                                     From North                                 From East                          From South                            From West
             Start Time       Right       Thru          Left             Right       Thru        Left       Right       Thru              Left     Right       Thru             Left        Int. Total
           04:00 PM              0            0              0            49         123               0           54           1          7              0            55        16             305
           04:15 PM              0            0              0            40         116               0           49           0          9              0            53        10             277
           04:30 PM              0            0              0            35         106               0           69           0          7              0            65        11             293
           04:45 PM              0            0              0            63         148               0           57           0          9              0            49         7             333
               Total             0            0              0           187         493               0          229           1         32              0           222        44            1208

           05:00 PM              0            0              0            64         183               0           88           3         13              0            71         9             431
           05:15 PM              0            0              0            48         178               0           91           0         10              0            63        11             401
           05:30 PM              0            0              0            73         176               0          104           2         13              0            86        11             465
           05:45 PM              0            0              0            64         137               0          100           2         17              0            69         8             397
               Total             0            0              0           249         674               0          383           7         53              0           289        39            1694

      Grand Total                0            0              0           436        1167               0         612             8        85              0       511            83            2902
        Apprch %                 0            0              0           27.2        72.8              0         86.8          1.1      12.1              0         86           14
          Total %                0            0              0            15         40.2              0         21.1          0.3        2.9             0       17.6          2.9
            Cars                 0            0              0           427        1139               0         587             8        85              0       489            82            2817
          % Cars                 0            0              0           97.9        97.6              0         95.9          100       100              0       95.7         98.8             97.1
   Heavy Vehicles                0            0              0              9         28               0           25            0          0             0         22            1              85
 % Heavy Vehicles                0            0              0            2.1         2.4              0          4.1            0          0             0        4.3          1.2              2.9




                           I-95/128 NB Onramp                               Grove Street                           I-95/128 NB Offramp                        Grove Street
                                From North                                   From East                                  From South                             From West
      Start Time     Right     Thru     Left App. Total          Right      Thru     Left    App. Total      Right     Thru     Left App. Total   Right       Thru     Left    App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
    05:00 PM         0       0       0        0      64                     183        0          247           88         3     13       104        0           71        9         80        431
     05:15 PM        0       0       0        0       48                    178        0          226           91         0     10       101        0           63       11         74        401
     05:30 PM        0       0       0        0      73                     176        0          249         104          2     13       119        0          86        11         97        465
     05:45 PM        0       0       0        0       64                    137        0          201         100          2     17       119        0           69        8         77        397
 Total Volume        0       0       0        0     249                     674        0          923         383          7     53       443        0         289        39        328       1694
  % App. Total       0       0       0                27                      73       0                     86.5        1.6     12                  0        88.1      11.9
           PHF    .000    .000    .000     .000    .853                    .921     .000          .927       .921      .583    .779       .931    .000        .840      .886       .845        .911
           Cars      0       0       0        0     243                     657        0           900        371          7     53        431       0         277        39        316       1647
       % Cars        0       0       0        0    97.6                    97.5        0          97.5       96.9       100     100       97.3       0        95.8       100       96.3        97.2
 Heavy Vehicles      0       0       0        0        6                      17       0            23          12         0      0         12       0           12        0         12          47
 % Heavy Vehicles    0       0       0        0      2.4                     2.5       0            2.5        3.1         0      0         2.7      0          4.2        0         3.7        2.8
                                                                                            PRECISION
                                                                                            D A T A
N/S: I-95/128 NB Ramps                                                                      INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                    File Name          : 91860 FF
                                                                                       P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Grove Street                                                                 Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                      Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                               Site Code          : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                         Start Date         : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                         Page No            :1


                                                                                         Groups Printed- Cars
                                I-95/128 NB Onramp                             Grove Street                   I-95/128 NB Offramp                       Grove Street
                                     From North                                 From East                          From South                           From West
             Start Time       Right       Thru          Left             Right       Thru        Left       Right       Thru             Left     Right       Thru            Left        Int. Total
           04:00 PM              0            0              0            49         121              0           49           1          7              0           52        15             294
           04:15 PM              0            0              0            40         113              0           47           0          9              0           53        10             272
           04:30 PM              0            0              0            33         105              0           67           0          7              0           59        11             282
           04:45 PM              0            0              0            62         143              0           53           0          9              0           48         7             322
               Total             0            0              0           184         482              0          216           1         32              0          212        43            1170

           05:00 PM              0            0              0            61         180              0           82           3         13              0           66         9             414
           05:15 PM              0            0              0            48         171              0           90           0         10              0           61        11             391
           05:30 PM              0            0              0            72         173              0          101           2         13              0           83        11             455
           05:45 PM              0            0              0            62         133              0           98           2         17              0           67         8             387
               Total             0            0              0           243         657              0          371           7         53              0          277        39            1647

        Grand Total              0            0              0           427       1139               0         587            8         85              0      489            82            2817
          Apprch %               0            0              0           27.3       72.7              0         86.3         1.2       12.5              0      85.6         14.4
           Total %               0            0              0           15.2       40.4              0         20.8         0.3          3              0      17.4          2.9




                           I-95/128 NB Onramp                               Grove Street                          I-95/128 NB Offramp                        Grove Street
                                From North                                   From East                                 From South                             From West
      Start Time     Right     Thru     Left App. Total          Right      Thru     Left    App. Total     Right     Thru     Left App. Total   Right       Thru     Left   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
    05:00 PM         0       0       0        0      61                     180        0          241         82         3     13         98        0          66        9         75        414
    05:15 PM         0       0       0        0      48                     171        0          219         90         0     10        100        0          61       11         72        391
    05:30 PM         0       0       0        0      72                     173        0          245        101         2     13        116        0          83       11         94        455
    05:45 PM         0       0       0        0      62                     133        0          195         98         2     17        117        0          67        8         75        387
 Total Volume        0       0       0        0     243                     657        0          900        371         7     53        431        0         277       39        316       1647
 % App. Total        0       0       0               27                      73        0                    86.1       1.6   12.3                   0        87.7     12.3
          PHF    .000     .000    .000     .000    .844                    .913     .000         .918       .918      .583   .779        .921    .000        .834     .886       .840        .905
                                                                                            PRECISION
                                                                                            D A T A
N/S: I-95/128 NB Ramps                                                                      INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                    File Name          : 91860 FF
                                                                                       P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Grove Street                                                                 Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                      Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                               Site Code          : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                         Start Date         : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                         Page No            :1


                                                                                   Groups Printed- Heavy Vehicles
                                I-95/128 NB Onramp                             Grove Street                  I-95/128 NB Offramp                        Grove Street
                                     From North                                 From East                         From South                            From West
             Start Time       Right       Thru          Left             Right       Thru        Left      Right       Thru              Left     Right       Thru            Left        Int. Total
           04:00 PM              0            0              0              0          2              0             5          0           0             0           3           1              11
           04:15 PM              0            0              0              0          3              0             2          0           0             0           0           0               5
           04:30 PM              0            0              0              2          1              0             2          0           0             0           6           0              11
           04:45 PM              0            0              0              1          5              0             4          0           0             0           1           0              11
               Total             0            0              0              3         11              0            13          0           0             0          10           1              38

           05:00 PM              0            0              0              3          3              0             6          0           0             0           5           0              17
           05:15 PM              0            0              0              0          7              0             1          0           0             0           2           0              10
           05:30 PM              0            0              0              1          3              0             3          0           0             0           3           0              10
           05:45 PM              0            0              0              2          4              0             2          0           0             0           2           0              10
               Total             0            0              0              6         17              0            12          0           0             0          12           0              47

        Grand Total              0            0              0              9        28               0          25            0           0             0        22            1               85
          Apprch %               0            0              0           24.3       75.7              0         100            0           0             0      95.7          4.3
           Total %               0            0              0           10.6       32.9              0         29.4           0           0             0      25.9          1.2




                           I-95/128 NB Onramp                               Grove Street                          I-95/128 NB Offramp                        Grove Street
                                From North                                   From East                                 From South                             From West
      Start Time     Right     Thru     Left App. Total          Right      Thru     Left    App. Total     Right     Thru     Left App. Total   Right       Thru     Left   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:30 PM
    04:30 PM         0       0       0        0       2                       1        0            3          2         0      0           2       0           6       0             6         11
    04:45 PM         0       0       0        0       1                       5        0            6          4         0      0           4       0           1       0             1         11
    05:00 PM         0       0       0        0       3                       3        0            6          6         0      0           6       0           5       0             5         17
    05:15 PM         0       0       0        0       0                       7        0            7          1         0      0           1       0           2       0             2         10
 Total Volume        0       0       0        0       6                      16        0           22         13         0      0          13       0          14       0            14         49
 % App. Total        0       0       0             27.3                    72.7        0                     100         0      0                   0         100       0
          PHF    .000     .000    .000     .000    .500                    .571     .000         .786       .542      .000   .000        .542    .000        .583    .000        .583        .721
                                                                                  PRECISION
                                                                                  D A T A
N/S: I-95/128 NB Ramps                                                            INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                                 File Name     : 91860 FF
                                                                               P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Grove Street                                                         Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                              Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                  Site Code     : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                            Start Date    : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                            Page No       :1


                                                                       Groups Printed- Peds and Bicycles
                           I-95/128 NB Onramp                     Grove Street                     I-95/128 NB Offramp                                       Grove Street
                                From North                         From East                            From South                                           From West
       Start Time    Right      Thru     Left    Peds     Right   Thru      Left    Peds     Right      Thru     Left                 Peds         Right     Thru      Left    Peds         Int. Total
      04:00 PM           0        0        0        4         0       0           0            0           0          0        0           0          0           0      0         0                4
      04:15 PM           0        0        0        2         0       0           0            0           0          0        0           0          0           0      0         0                2
      04:30 PM           0        0        0        2         0       1           0            0           0          0        0           0          0           0      0         0                3
      04:45 PM           0        0        0        5         0       0           0            0           0          0        0           0          0           0      0         0                5
          Total          0        0        0       13         0       1           0            0           0          0        0           0          0           0      0         0               14

      05:00 PM           0        0        0        3         0       1           0            0           0          0        0           0          0           0      0         0                4
      05:15 PM           0        0        0        3         0       1           0            0           0          0        0           0          0           0      0         0                4
      05:30 PM           0        0        0        4         0       0           0            0           0          0        0           0          0           0      0         0                4
      05:45 PM           0        0        0        1         0       0           0            0           0          0        0           0          0           0      0         0                1
          Total          0        0        0       11         0       2           0            0           0          0        0           0          0           0      0         0               13

   Grand Total           0        0        0      24          0      3            0            0           0          0        0           0          0           0      0         0               27
     Apprch %            0        0        0     100          0   100             0            0           0          0        0           0          0           0      0         0
      Total %            0        0        0     88.9         0   11.1            0            0           0          0        0           0          0           0      0         0




                         I-95/128 NB Onramp                       Grove Street                                 I-95/128 NB Offramp                             Grove Street
                              From North                           From East                                        From South                                  From West
   Start Time Right Thru         Left Peds App. Total Right   Thru    Left Peds       App. Total   Right       Thru    Left Peds     App. Total   Right    Thru    Left Peds   App. Total    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:45 PM
  04:45 PM      0       0     0     5        5     0   0   0    0                            0        0    0            0      0            0        0        0      0    0            0           5
  05:00 PM      0       0     0     3        3     0   1                                     1        0    0            0      0            0        0        0      0    0            0           4
  05:15 PM      0       0     0     3        3     0   1   0    0                            1        0    0            0      0            0        0        0      0    0            0           4
  05:30 PM      0       0     0     4        4     0   0   0    0                            0        0    0            0      0            0        0        0      0    0            0           4
 Total Volume   0       0     0    15      15      0   2   0    0                            2        0    0            0      0            0        0        0      0    0            0          17
 % App. Total   0       0     0 100                0 100   0    0                                     0    0            0      0                     0        0      0    0
        PHF .000 .000 .000 .750          .750 .000 .500 .000 .000                       .500       .000 .000         .000   .000       .000       .000     .000   .000 .000      .000          .850
                                                                                         PRECISION
                                                                                         D A T A
N/S: I-95/128 NB Ramps                                                                   INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                            File Name           : 91860 FF
                                                                                      P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Grove Street                                                                Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                     Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                    Site Code           : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                              Start Date          : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                              Page No             :1



                           I-95/128 NB Onramp                            Grove Street                            I-95/128 NB Offramp                           Grove Street
                                From North                                From East                                   From South                                From West
      Start Time     Right     Thru     Left App. Total          Right   Thru     Left     App. Total      Right     Thru     Left App. Total      Right       Thru     Left       App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
    05:00 PM         0       0       0        0      64                   183        0          247           88         3     13       104           0          71            9         80        431
     05:15 PM        0       0       0        0       48                  178        0          226           91         0     10       101           0          63           11         74        401
     05:30 PM        0       0       0        0      73                   176        0          249         104          2     13       119           0         86            11         97        465
     05:45 PM        0       0       0        0       64                  137        0          201         100          2     17       119           0          69            8         77        397
 Total Volume        0       0       0        0     249                   674        0          923         383          7     53       443           0        289            39        328       1694
  % App. Total       0       0       0                27                    73       0                     86.5        1.6     12                     0       88.1          11.9
           PHF    .000    .000    .000     .000    .853                  .921     .000          .927       .921      .583    .779       .931       .000       .840          .886       .845        .911
           Cars      0       0       0        0     243                   657        0           900        371          7     53        431          0        277            39        316       1647
       % Cars        0       0       0        0    97.6                  97.5        0          97.5       96.9       100     100       97.3          0       95.8           100       96.3        97.2
 Heavy Vehicles      0       0       0        0        6                    17       0            23          12         0      0         12          0          12            0         12          47
 % Heavy Vehicles    0       0       0        0      2.4                   2.5       0            2.5        3.1         0      0         2.7         0         4.2            0         3.7        2.8

                                                                                       I-95/128 NB Onramp
                                                                                      Out       In     Total
                                                                                       289         0    289
                                                                                          6        0       6
                                                                                       295         0    295


                                                                                             0     0          0
                                                                                             0     0          0
                                                                                             0     0          0
                                                                                         Right Thru       Left




                                                                                  Peak Hour Data
                                    1026
                                       29
                                    1055
                                    Total




                                                                                                                                                       Out
                                                      39
                                                        0
                                                      39




                                                                                                                                                        672

                                                                                                                                                        648
                                                                                                                                      Right Thru
                                                    Left




                                                                                                                                                         24
                                                                                                                                        249

                                                                                                                                        243




                                                                                                 North
                                     Grove Street




                                                                                                                                                       Grove Street
                                                                                                                                          6
                                            316
                                             12
                                            328




                                                                                 Peak Hour Begins at 05:00 PM
                                                           277
                                                            12
                                                           289
                                                    Right Thru
                                           In




                                                                                                                                                           In
                                                                                                                                             674

                                                                                                                                             657


                                                                                                                                                            923

                                                                                                                                                            900
                                                                                                                                              17




                                                                                                                                                             23




                                                                                 Cars
                                                                                 Heavy Vehicles
                                                        0
                                                        0
                                                        0




                                                                                                                                      Left
                                  710
                                   17
                                  727
                                 Out




                                                                                                                                                                    Total
                                                                                                                                                                    1595

                                                                                                                                                                    1548
                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                          0



                                                                                                                                                                       47




                                                                                         Left Thru Right
                                                                                           53     7  371
                                                                                             0    0   12
                                                                                           53     7  383


                                                                                           0     431     431
                                                                                           0      12       12
                                                                                           0     443     443
                                                                                      Out       In      Total
                                                                                       I-95/128 NB Offramp
                                                                                    PRECISION
                                                                                    D A T A
N/S: Quinobequin Road                                                               INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                    File Name          : 91860 G
                                                                                 P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E: I-95 SB Onramp                                                           Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                       Site Code          : 10865.00
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                Start Date         : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                 Page No            :1


                                                                          Groups Printed- Cars - Heavy Vehicles
                                                Quinobequin Road                           I-95 SB Onramp                           Quinobequin Road
                                                   From North                                 From East                                From South
                           Start Time              Thru                    Left              Right                        Left        Right                Thru               Int. Total
                          07:00 AM                 110                     33                       0                       0              54                0                    197
                          07:15 AM                 149                     48                       0                       0              70                0                    267
                          07:30 AM                 173                     54                       0                       0              79                0                    306
                          07:45 AM                 187                     57                       0                       0              70                0                    314
                              Total                619                    192                       0                       0             273                0                   1084

                          08:00 AM                 212                     58                       0                       0              73                0                    343
                          08:15 AM                 203                     49                       0                       0              98                0                    350
                          08:30 AM                 184                     51                       0                       0              95                0                    330
                          08:45 AM                 176                     54                       0                       0             106                0                    336
                              Total                775                    212                       0                       0             372                0                   1359

                     Grand Total                  1394                    404                       0                       0         645                    0                   2443
                       Apprch %                    77.5                   22.5                      0                       0         100                    0
                         Total %                   57.1                   16.5                      0                       0         26.4                   0
                           Cars                   1346                    382                       0                       0         624                    0                   2352
                         % Cars                    96.6                   94.6                      0                       0         96.7                   0                    96.3
                  Heavy Vehicles                     48                    22                       0                       0          21                    0                     91
                % Heavy Vehicles                    3.4                    5.4                      0                       0          3.3                   0                     3.7




                                        Quinobequin Road                                I-95 SB Onramp                                  Quinobequin Road
                                           From North                                      From East                                       From South
                Start Time         Thru          Left        App. Total           Right         Left                 App. Total   Right        Thru         App. Total        Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
            08:00 AM            212          58                    270                0                0                     0       73            0               73             343
             08:15 AM           203           49                   252                0                0                     0       98            0               98             350
             08:30 AM           184           51                   235                0                0                     0       95            0               95             330
             08:45 AM           176           54                   230                0                0                     0     106             0              106             336
        Total Volume            775         212                    987                0                0                     0     372             0              372            1359
         % App. Total          78.5        21.5                                       0                0                           100             0
                  PHF          .914        .914                  .914              .000             .000                 .000     .877          .000              .877            .971
                  Cars          749         200                   949                 0                0                    0      358             0               358           1307
               % Cars          96.6        94.3                  96.1                 0                0                    0     96.2             0              96.2            96.2
       Heavy Vehicles             26          12                   38                 0                0                    0        14            0                 14             52
     % Heavy Vehicles            3.4         5.7                   3.9                0                0                    0       3.8            0                3.8            3.8
                                                                                    PRECISION
                                                                                    D A T A
N/S: Quinobequin Road                                                               INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                   File Name          : 91860 G
                                                                                 P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E: I-95 SB Onramp                                                           Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                      Site Code          : 10865.00
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                               Start Date         : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                Page No            :1


                                                                                   Groups Printed- Cars
                                                Quinobequin Road                           I-95 SB Onramp                          Quinobequin Road
                                                   From North                                  From East                              From South
                           Start Time              Thru                    Left               Right                       Left       Right                 Thru              Int. Total
                          07:00 AM                 108                     33                       0                       0             53                 0                   194
                          07:15 AM                 144                     46                       0                       0             69                 0                   259
                          07:30 AM                 166                     51                       0                       0             76                 0                   293
                          07:45 AM                 179                     52                       0                       0             68                 0                   299
                              Total                597                    182                       0                       0            266                 0                  1045

                          08:00 AM                 202                     55                       0                       0             70                 0                   327
                          08:15 AM                 195                     45                       0                       0             94                 0                   334
                          08:30 AM                 181                     48                       0                       0             92                 0                   321
                          08:45 AM                 171                     52                       0                       0            102                 0                   325
                              Total                749                    200                       0                       0            358                 0                  1307

                       Grand Total                1346                    382                       0                       0         624                    0                  2352
                         Apprch %                  77.9                   22.1                      0                       0         100                    0
                          Total %                  57.2                   16.2                      0                       0         26.5                   0




                                        Quinobequin Road                                I-95 SB Onramp                                  Quinobequin Road
                                           From North                                      From East                                       From South
                Start Time         Thru          Left        App. Total           Right         Left                 App. Total   Right        Thru         App. Total       Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
            08:00 AM            202          55                    257                0                0                     0      70            0                70            327
             08:15 AM           195          45                    240                0                0                     0      94            0                94            334
             08:30 AM           181          48                    229                0                0                     0      92            0                92            321
             08:45 AM           171          52                    223                0                0                     0     102            0               102            325
        Total Volume            749         200                    949                0                0                     0     358            0               358           1307
         % App. Total          78.9        21.1                                       0                0                           100            0
                  PHF          .927        .909                  .923              .000             .000                 .000     .877         .000               .877           .978
                                                                                    PRECISION
                                                                                    D A T A
N/S: Quinobequin Road                                                               INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                   File Name          : 91860 G
                                                                                 P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E: I-95 SB Onramp                                                           Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                      Site Code          : 10865.00
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                               Start Date         : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                Page No            :1


                                                                             Groups Printed- Heavy Vehicles
                                                Quinobequin Road                           I-95 SB Onramp                          Quinobequin Road
                                                   From North                                 From East                               From South
                           Start Time              Thru                    Left              Right                        Left       Right                 Thru              Int. Total
                          07:00 AM                    2                     0                       0                       0             1                  0                      3
                          07:15 AM                    5                     2                       0                       0             1                  0                      8
                          07:30 AM                    7                     3                       0                       0             3                  0                     13
                          07:45 AM                    8                     5                       0                       0             2                  0                     15
                              Total                  22                    10                       0                       0             7                  0                     39

                          08:00 AM                   10                     3                       0                       0             3                  0                     16
                          08:15 AM                    8                     4                       0                       0             4                  0                     16
                          08:30 AM                    3                     3                       0                       0             3                  0                      9
                          08:45 AM                    5                     2                       0                       0             4                  0                     11
                              Total                  26                    12                       0                       0            14                  0                     52

                       Grand Total                  48                     22                       0                       0          21                    0                     91
                         Apprch %                  68.6                   31.4                      0                       0         100                    0
                          Total %                  52.7                   24.2                      0                       0         23.1                   0




                                        Quinobequin Road                                I-95 SB Onramp                                  Quinobequin Road
                                           From North                                      From East                                       From South
                Start Time         Thru          Left        App. Total           Right         Left                 App. Total   Right        Thru         App. Total       Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
            07:30 AM              7           3                    10                 0                0                     0       3           0                  3              13
            07:45 AM              8           5                    13                 0                0                     0       2           0                  2              15
             08:00 AM            10           3                    13                 0                0                     0       3           0                  3              16
             08:15 AM             8           4                    12                 0                0                     0       4           0                  4              16
        Total Volume             33          15                    48                 0                0                     0      12           0                 12              60
         % App. Total          68.8        31.2                                       0                0                           100           0
                  PHF          .825        .750                  .923              .000             .000                 .000     .750        .000                .750           .938
                                                                                    PRECISION
                                                                                    D A T A
N/S: Quinobequin Road                                                               INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                         File Name    : 91860 G
                                                                                 P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E: I-95 SB Onramp                                                           Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                            Site Code    : 10865.00
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                     Start Date   : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                      Page No      :1


                                                                        Groups Printed- Peds and Bicycles
                                          Quinobequin Road                            I-95 SB Onramp                                     Quinobequin Road
                                             From North                                  From East                                          From South
                  Start Time          Thru           Left          Peds        Right            Left                     Peds        Right         Thru           Peds        Int. Total
                 07:00 AM                0              0               0                0                 0                 0            0             0            0                0
                 07:15 AM                0              0               0                0                 0                 0            0             0            0                0
                 07:30 AM                0              0               0                0                 0                 0            0             0            0                0
                 07:45 AM                0              0               0                0                 0                 0            0             0            0                0
                     Total               0              0               0                0                 0                 0            0             0            0                0

                 08:00 AM                0              0               0                0                 0                 0            0             0            0                0
                 08:15 AM                0              0               0                0                 0                 0            0             0            0                0
                 08:30 AM                1              0               0                0                 0                 0            0             0            0                1
                 08:45 AM                0              0               0                0                 0                 0            0             0            0                0
                     Total               1              0               0                0                 0                 0            0             0            0                1

              Grand Total               1               0               0                0                 0                 0            0             0            0                1
                Apprch %              100               0               0                0                 0                 0            0             0            0
                 Total %              100               0               0                0                 0                 0            0             0            0




                                     Quinobequin Road                                     I-95 SB Onramp                                      Quinobequin Road
                                        From North                                           From East                                           From South
           Start Time      Thru        Left      Peds      App. Total       Right           Left     Peds            App. Total   Right        Thru       Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
        07:45 AM           0         0         0                   0           0             0             0                 0       0            0         0            0            0
        08:00 AM           0         0         0                   0           0             0             0                 0       0            0         0            0            0
        08:15 AM           0         0         0                   0           0             0             0                 0       0            0         0            0            0
        08:30 AM           1         0         0                   1           0             0             0                 0       0            0         0            0            1
     Total Volume          1         0         0                   1           0             0             0                 0       0            0         0            0            1
     % App. Total        100         0         0                               0             0             0                         0            0         0
              PHF       .250      .000      .000                .250        .000          .000          .000             .000     .000         .000      .000        .000         .250
                                                                                  PRECISION
                                                                                  D A T A
N/S: Quinobequin Road                                                             INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                           File Name              : 91860 G
                                                                               P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E: I-95 SB Onramp                                                         Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                              Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                            Site Code              : 10865.00
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                     Start Date             : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                      Page No                :1



                                        Quinobequin Road                              I-95 SB Onramp                                   Quinobequin Road
                                           From North                                    From East                                        From South
                Start Time         Thru          Left        App. Total         Right         Left                 App. Total    Right        Thru                    App. Total       Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
            08:00 AM            212          58                   270               0                0                     0        73            0                         73             343
             08:15 AM           203           49                  252               0                0                     0        98            0                         98             350
             08:30 AM           184           51                  235               0                0                     0        95            0                         95             330
             08:45 AM           176           54                  230               0                0                     0      106             0                        106             336
        Total Volume            775         212                   987               0                0                     0      372             0                        372            1359
         % App. Total          78.5        21.5                                     0                0                            100             0
                  PHF          .914        .914                  .914            .000             .000                 .000      .877          .000                       .877             .971
                  Cars          749         200                   949               0                0                    0       358             0                        358            1307
               % Cars          96.6        94.3                  96.1               0                0                    0      96.2             0                       96.2             96.2
       Heavy Vehicles             26          12                   38               0                0                    0         14            0                          14              52
     % Heavy Vehicles            3.4         5.7                   3.9              0                0                    0        3.8            0                         3.8             3.8

                                                                                 Quinobequin Road
                                                                               Out      In      Total
                                                                                   0     949      949
                                                                                   0      38       38
                                                                                   0     987      987


                                                                                       749      200
                                                                                        26       12
                                                                                       775      212
                                                                                      Thru     Left




                                                                           Peak Hour Data                                                   Out
                                                                                                                                             584

                                                                                                                                             558
                                                                                                                                              26


                                                                                                                                                I-95 SB Onramp


                                                                                          North
                                                                                                                                Right




                                                                          Peak Hour Begins at 08:00 AM
                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                    0




                                                                                                                                                       In




                                                                          Cars
                                                                                                                                Left




                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                          0




                                                                          Heavy Vehicles
                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                    0




                                                                                                                                                              Total
                                                                                                                                                               584

                                                                                                                                                               558
                                                                                                                                                                 26




                                                                                      Thru Right
                                                                                          0  358
                                                                                          0   14
                                                                                          0  372


                                                                                749      358    1107
                                                                                 26       14       40
                                                                                775      372    1147
                                                                               Out      In      Total
                                                                                 Quinobequin Road
                                                                                    PRECISION
                                                                                    D A T A
N/S: Quinobequin Road                                                               INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                    File Name          : 91860 GG
                                                                                 P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E: I-95 SB Onramp                                                           Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                       Site Code          : 10865.00
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                Start Date         : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                 Page No            :1


                                                                          Groups Printed- Cars - Heavy Vehicles
                                                Quinobequin Road                           I-95 SB Onramp                           Quinobequin Road
                                                   From North                                 From East                                From South
                           Start Time              Thru                    Left              Right                        Left        Right                Thru               Int. Total
                          04:00 PM                 181                     55                       0                       0             108                0                    344
                          04:15 PM                 178                     60                       0                       0             118                0                    356
                          04:30 PM                 170                     45                       0                       0             118                0                    333
                          04:45 PM                 221                     47                       0                       0              95                0                    363
                              Total                750                    207                       0                       0             439                0                   1396

                          05:00 PM                 217                     90                       0                       0             113                0                    420
                          05:15 PM                 219                     86                       0                       0             120                0                    425
                          05:30 PM                 192                     79                       0                       0             120                0                    391
                          05:45 PM                 248                     71                       0                       0             121                0                    440
                              Total                876                    326                       0                       0             474                0                   1676

                     Grand Total                  1626                    533                       0                       0         913                    0                   3072
                       Apprch %                    75.3                   24.7                      0                       0         100                    0
                         Total %                   52.9                   17.4                      0                       0         29.7                   0
                           Cars                   1605                    524                       0                       0         896                    0                   3025
                         % Cars                    98.7                   98.3                      0                       0         98.1                   0                    98.5
                  Heavy Vehicles                     21                      9                      0                       0          17                    0                     47
                % Heavy Vehicles                    1.3                    1.7                      0                       0          1.9                   0                     1.5




                                        Quinobequin Road                                I-95 SB Onramp                                  Quinobequin Road
                                           From North                                      From East                                       From South
                Start Time         Thru          Left        App. Total           Right         Left                 App. Total   Right        Thru         App. Total        Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
            05:00 PM            217          90                   307                 0                0                     0     113             0              113             420
             05:15 PM           219           86                  305                 0                0                     0     120             0              120             425
             05:30 PM           192           79                  271                 0                0                     0     120             0              120             391
             05:45 PM           248           71                  319                 0                0                     0     121             0              121             440
        Total Volume            876         326                  1202                 0                0                     0     474             0              474            1676
        % App. Total           72.9        27.1                                       0                0                           100             0
                  PHF          .883        .906                   .942             .000             .000                 .000     .979          .000              .979            .952
                  Cars          865         319                  1184                 0                0                    0      465             0               465           1649
               % Cars          98.7        97.9                   98.5                0                0                    0     98.1             0              98.1            98.4
      Heavy Vehicles              11           7                    18                0                0                    0         9            0                  9             27
    % Heavy Vehicles             1.3         2.1                   1.5                0                0                    0       1.9            0                1.9            1.6
                                                                                    PRECISION
                                                                                    D A T A
N/S: Quinobequin Road                                                               INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                   File Name          : 91860 GG
                                                                                 P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E: I-95 SB Onramp                                                           Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                      Site Code          : 10865.00
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                               Start Date         : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                Page No            :1


                                                                                   Groups Printed- Cars
                                                Quinobequin Road                           I-95 SB Onramp                          Quinobequin Road
                                                   From North                                  From East                              From South
                           Start Time              Thru                    Left               Right                       Left       Right                 Thru              Int. Total
                          04:00 PM                 179                     54                       0                       0            106                 0                   339
                          04:15 PM                 175                     60                       0                       0            117                 0                   352
                          04:30 PM                 167                     45                       0                       0            115                 0                   327
                          04:45 PM                 219                     46                       0                       0             93                 0                   358
                              Total                740                    205                       0                       0            431                 0                  1376

                          05:00 PM                 215                     88                       0                       0            112                 0                   415
                          05:15 PM                 213                     84                       0                       0            117                 0                   414
                          05:30 PM                 190                     77                       0                       0            118                 0                   385
                          05:45 PM                 247                     70                       0                       0            118                 0                   435
                              Total                865                    319                       0                       0            465                 0                  1649

                       Grand Total                1605                    524                       0                       0         896                    0                  3025
                         Apprch %                  75.4                   24.6                      0                       0         100                    0
                          Total %                  53.1                   17.3                      0                       0         29.6                   0




                                        Quinobequin Road                                I-95 SB Onramp                                  Quinobequin Road
                                           From North                                      From East                                       From South
                Start Time         Thru          Left        App. Total           Right         Left                 App. Total   Right        Thru         App. Total       Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
            05:00 PM            215          88                   303                 0                0                     0     112            0               112            415
             05:15 PM           213          84                   297                 0                0                     0     117            0               117            414
             05:30 PM           190          77                   267                 0                0                     0     118            0               118            385
             05:45 PM           247          70                   317                 0                0                     0     118            0               118            435
        Total Volume            865         319                  1184                 0                0                     0     465            0               465           1649
        % App. Total           73.1        26.9                                       0                0                           100            0
                  PHF          .876        .906                  .934              .000             .000                 .000     .985         .000               .985           .948
                                                                                    PRECISION
                                                                                    D A T A
N/S: Quinobequin Road                                                               INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                   File Name          : 91860 GG
                                                                                 P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E: I-95 SB Onramp                                                           Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                      Site Code          : 10865.00
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                               Start Date         : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                Page No            :1


                                                                             Groups Printed- Heavy Vehicles
                                                Quinobequin Road                           I-95 SB Onramp                          Quinobequin Road
                                                   From North                                 From East                               From South
                           Start Time              Thru                    Left              Right                        Left       Right                 Thru              Int. Total
                          04:00 PM                    2                      1                      0                       0            2                   0                      5
                          04:15 PM                    3                      0                      0                       0            1                   0                      4
                          04:30 PM                    3                      0                      0                       0            3                   0                      6
                          04:45 PM                    2                      1                      0                       0            2                   0                      5
                              Total                  10                      2                      0                       0            8                   0                     20

                          05:00 PM                    2                      2                      0                       0            1                   0                      5
                          05:15 PM                    6                      2                      0                       0            3                   0                     11
                          05:30 PM                    2                      2                      0                       0            2                   0                      6
                          05:45 PM                    1                      1                      0                       0            3                   0                      5
                              Total                  11                      7                      0                       0            9                   0                     27

                       Grand Total                  21                       9                      0                       0          17                    0                     47
                         Apprch %                   70                     30                       0                       0         100                    0
                          Total %                  44.7                   19.1                      0                       0         36.2                   0




                                        Quinobequin Road                                I-95 SB Onramp                                  Quinobequin Road
                                           From North                                      From East                                       From South
                Start Time         Thru          Left        App. Total           Right         Left                 App. Total   Right        Thru         App. Total       Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:30 PM
            04:30 PM              3           0                      3                0                0                     0       3           0                  3               6
             04:45 PM             2           1                      3                0                0                     0       2           0                  2               5
             05:00 PM             2           2                      4                0                0                     0       1           0                  1               5
             05:15 PM             6           2                      8                0                0                     0       3           0                  3              11
        Total Volume             13           5                     18                0                0                     0       9           0                  9              27
        % App. Total           72.2        27.8                                       0                0                           100           0
                  PHF          .542        .625                  .563              .000             .000                 .000     .750        .000                .750           .614
                                                                                    PRECISION
                                                                                    D A T A
N/S: Quinobequin Road                                                               INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                         File Name    : 91860 GG
                                                                                 P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E: I-95 SB Onramp                                                           Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                            Site Code    : 10865.00
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                     Start Date   : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                      Page No      :1


                                                                        Groups Printed- Peds and Bicycles
                                          Quinobequin Road                            I-95 SB Onramp                                     Quinobequin Road
                                             From North                                  From East                                          From South
                  Start Time          Thru           Left          Peds        Right            Left                     Peds        Right         Thru           Peds        Int. Total
                 04:00 PM                0              0               0                0                 0                 0            0             0            0                0
                 04:15 PM                0              0               0                0                 0                 0            0             0            0                0
                 04:30 PM                1              0               0                0                 0                 0            0             0            0                1
                 04:45 PM                0              0               0                0                 0                 0            0             0            0                0
                     Total               1              0               0                0                 0                 0            0             0            0                1

                 05:00 PM                0              0               0                0                 0                 0            0             0            0                0
                 05:15 PM                1              0               0                0                 0                 0            0             0            0                1
                 05:30 PM                0              0               0                0                 0                 0            0             0            0                0
                 05:45 PM                0              0               0                0                 0                 0            0             0            0                0
                     Total               1              0               0                0                 0                 0            0             0            0                1

              Grand Total               2               0               0                0                 0                 0            0             0            0                2
                Apprch %              100               0               0                0                 0                 0            0             0            0
                 Total %              100               0               0                0                 0                 0            0             0            0




                                     Quinobequin Road                                     I-95 SB Onramp                                      Quinobequin Road
                                        From North                                           From East                                           From South
           Start Time      Thru        Left      Peds      App. Total       Right           Left     Peds            App. Total   Right        Thru       Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:30 PM
        04:30 PM           1         0         0                   1           0             0             0                 0       0            0         0            0            1
        04:45 PM           0         0         0                   0           0             0             0                 0       0            0         0            0            0
        05:00 PM           0         0         0                   0           0             0             0                 0       0            0         0            0            0
        05:15 PM           1         0         0                   1           0             0             0                 0       0            0         0            0            1
     Total Volume          2         0         0                   2           0             0             0                 0       0            0         0            0            2
     % App. Total        100         0         0                               0             0             0                         0            0         0
              PHF       .500      .000      .000                .500        .000          .000          .000             .000     .000         .000      .000        .000         .500
                                                                                  PRECISION
                                                                                  D A T A
N/S: Quinobequin Road                                                             INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                           File Name              : 91860 GG
                                                                               P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E: I-95 SB Onramp                                                         Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                              Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                            Site Code              : 10865.00
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                     Start Date             : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                      Page No                :1



                                        Quinobequin Road                              I-95 SB Onramp                                   Quinobequin Road
                                           From North                                    From East                                        From South
                Start Time         Thru          Left        App. Total         Right         Left                 App. Total    Right        Thru                    App. Total       Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
            05:00 PM            217          90                   307               0                0                     0      113             0                        113             420
             05:15 PM           219           86                  305               0                0                     0      120             0                        120             425
             05:30 PM           192           79                  271               0                0                     0      120             0                        120             391
             05:45 PM           248           71                  319               0                0                     0      121             0                        121             440
        Total Volume            876         326                  1202               0                0                     0      474             0                        474            1676
        % App. Total           72.9        27.1                                     0                0                            100             0
                  PHF          .883        .906                   .942           .000             .000                 .000      .979          .000                       .979             .952
                  Cars          865         319                  1184               0                0                    0       465             0                        465            1649
               % Cars          98.7        97.9                   98.5              0                0                    0      98.1             0                       98.1             98.4
      Heavy Vehicles              11           7                    18              0                0                    0          9            0                           9              27
    % Heavy Vehicles             1.3         2.1                   1.5              0                0                    0        1.9            0                         1.9             1.6

                                                                                 Quinobequin Road
                                                                               Out      In      Total
                                                                                   0   1184     1184
                                                                                   0      18       18
                                                                                   0   1202     1202


                                                                                       865      319
                                                                                        11         7
                                                                                       876      326
                                                                                      Thru     Left




                                                                           Peak Hour Data                                                   Out
                                                                                                                                             800

                                                                                                                                             784
                                                                                                                                              16


                                                                                                                                                I-95 SB Onramp



                                                                                          North
                                                                                                                                Right




                                                                          Peak Hour Begins at 05:00 PM
                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                    0




                                                                                                                                                       In




                                                                          Cars
                                                                                                                                Left




                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                          0




                                                                          Heavy Vehicles
                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                    0




                                                                                                                                                              Total
                                                                                                                                                               800

                                                                                                                                                               784
                                                                                                                                                                 16




                                                                                      Thru Right
                                                                                          0  465
                                                                                          0    9
                                                                                          0  474


                                                                                865      465    1330
                                                                                 11        9       20
                                                                                876      474    1350
                                                                               Out      In      Total
                                                                                 Quinobequin Road
                                                                                                                                               PRECISION
                                                                                                                                               D A T A
N/S/SW:Quinobequin/I-95 Ramp/Walnut St                                                                                                         INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                                                                         File Name                       : 91860 H
                                                                                                                                    P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Washington Street (Route 16)                                                                                              Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                                                                   Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Site Code                       : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Start Date                      : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/M. Santos                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Page No                         :1


                                                                                                                         Groups Printed- Cars - Heavy Vehicles
                              Quinobequin Road (Route                                                                                Quinobequin Road (I-95/                                                                                                   Washington Street (Route
                                                                                  Washington Street (Route 16)                                                                                                 Walnut Street
                                    128 Ramps)                                                                                             128 Ramps)                                                                                                                    16)
                                                                                          From East                                                                                                           From Southwest
                                    From North                                                                                             From South                                                                                                                From West
            Start          Right           Bear
                                                    Thru           Left     Right         Thru      Bear Left        Left       U-Turn               Right       Thru     Left     Hard Left
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Hard           Bear
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Bear Left    Hard Left
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Hard
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Right      Thru           Left      Int. Total
            Time                           Right                                                                                                                                                   Right              Right                                      Right


    07:00 AM                   67        24            6            12        47           82         20            10                   0       98                0      9              0          7             182                      0            0         1          12          186                0          763
    07:15 AM                   88        42            4            20        69           90         25             5                   0      123                0     18              1          5             232                      0            0         4          20          188                0          934
    07:30 AM                   93        68            4            16        76           89         35             3                   0       86                0     14              0          4             232                      0            2         1          38          159                0          920
    07:45 AM                  100        51           10            23        66          118         41             1                   1      131                0     33              1          7             222                      0            0         4          23          159                0          991
        Total                 348       185           24            71       258          379        121            19                   1      438                0     74              2         23             868                      0            2        10          93          692                0         3608

    08:00 AM                   98        76           19            31        76          115         44             6                   0      139                0     30              0         11             243                      0            0         4         33           173                0         1098
    08:15 AM                  111        65           10            18        96          122         51            10                   2      149                0     25              0          9             198                      0            0        10         36           179                0         1091
    08:30 AM                   69        39            4            11        90          146         46             9                   1      106                0     23              0          3             213                      0            1         5         31           153                0          950
    08:45 AM                  115        78            5            29       107          157         81             2                   2       81                0     35              0          5             239                      0            2         5         25           158                0         1126
        Total                 393       258           38            89       369          540        222            27                   5      475                0    113              0         28             893                      0            3        24        125           663                0         4265

 Grand Total                  741       443            62         160         627         919         343           46                   6       913               0    187               2        51            1761                      0            5        34         218          1355               0         7873
    Apprch %              52.7          31.5        4.4 11.4                32.3          47.3 17.7               2.4             0.3 82.8                         0      17         0.2         2.8 96.9                                  0        0.3         2.1 13.6                 84.3               0
      Total %               9.4           5.6       0.8    2                    8         11.7  4.4               0.6             0.1 11.6                         0     2.4           0         0.6 22.4                                  0        0.1         0.4  2.8                 17.2               0
        Cars               714           430         61 153                  607          879 338                  45               6 876                          0     178           2          47 1752                                  0            5        33         210          1323               0         7659
      % Cars              96.4          97.1       98.4 95.6                96.8          95.6 98.5              97.8            100 95.9                          0    95.2        100         92.2 99.5                                  0      100          97.1 96.3                 97.6               0          97.3
  Heavy Vehicles             27            13         1    7                   20           40    5                 1               0   37                         0       9           0           4    9                                  0        0             1    8                   32               0           214
   % Heavy Vehicles         3.6           2.9       1.6  4.4                  3.2          4.4  1.5               2.2               0  4.1                         0     4.8           0         7.8  0.5                                  0        0           2.9  3.7                  2.4               0           2.7




                        Quinobequin Road (Route                                                                                              Quinobequin Road (I-95/ 128
                                                                              Washington Street (Route 16)                                                                                                     Walnut Street                                   Washington Street (Route 16)
                              128 Ramps)                                                                                                              Ramps)
                                                                                      From East                                                                                                               From Southwest                                           From West
                              From North                                                                                                            From South
                                 Bear                                                       Bear                                                                         Hard                   Hard           Bear       Bear            Hard                  Hard
 Start Time           Right              Thru      Left      App. Total   Right   Thru                Left      U-Turn      App. Total       Right      Thru     Left            App. Total                                                       App. Total             Right       Thru   Left        App. Total     Int. Total
                                Right                                                        Left                                                                        Left                  Right          Right           Left         Left                Right
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1

Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
 08:00 AM 98 76 19 31 224 76 115 44                  6                                                             0         241 139                         0    30      0       169          11 243                          0            0      254          4        33 173                    0     210 1098
 08:15 AM 111 65 10 18 204 96 122 51 10                                                                            2         281 149                         0    25      0       174           9 198                          0            0        207       10        36 179                    0     225 1091
 08:30 AM                                                                          146                                                       106                                                              213              0            1        217          5       31         153
 08:45 AM             115       78                            227 107 157                   81           2         2         349             81              0    35                                          239              0            2      246           5       25 158                    0     188 1126
  Total Volume        393      258         38       89          778       369      540     222                              1163             475                 113       0        588         28            893              0            3        924        24       125         663                               4265
  % App. Total        50.5     33.2      4.9       11.4                   31.7     46.4    19.1       2.3       0.4                          80.8                19.2      0                      3           96.6             0        0.3                              15.4        81.7
         PHF          .854     .827      .500      .718      .857         .862     .860    .685       .675      .625        .833             .797       .000     .807   .000     .845          .636           .919      .000            .375      .909         .600      .868        .926   .000        .902           .947
         Cars         379      253         37       84          753       356      513     221                              1122             461                 112       0        573         25            889              0          3          917        23       119         649                               4156
     % Cars           96.4     98.1      97.4      94.4      96.8         96.5     95.0    99.5       100       100         96.5             97.1                99.1      0     97.4          89.3           99.6             0        100       99.2         95.8      95.2        97.9               97.4           97.4
   Heavy Vehicles

   % Heavy Vehicles   3.6      1.9       2.6       5.6          3.2       3.5      5.0     0.5           0         0           3.5           2.9             0   0.9      0         2.6        10.7           0.4              0            0        0.8       4.2       4.8         2.1           0       2.6           2.6
                                                                                                                                               PRECISION
                                                                                                                                               D A T A
N/S/SW:Quinobequin/I-95 Ramp/Walnut St                                                                                                         INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                                                                         File Name                       : 91860 H
                                                                                                                                    P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Washington Street (Route 16)                                                                                              Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                                                                   Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Site Code                       : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Start Date                      : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/M. Santos                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Page No                         :1


                                                                                                                                             Groups Printed- Cars
                             Quinobequin Road (Route                                                                                            Quinobequin Road (I-95/                                                                                        Washington Street (Route
                                                                                  Washington Street (Route 16)                                                                                                 Walnut Street
                                   128 Ramps)                                                                                                         128 Ramps)                                                                                                         16)
                                                                                          From East                                                                                                           From Southwest
                                   From North                                                                                                          From South                                                                                                    From West
           Start           Right           Bear
                                                    Thru           Left     Right         Thru      Bear Left        Left       U-Turn               Right       Thru     Left     Hard Left
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Hard           Bear
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Bear Left    Hard Left
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Hard
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Right      Thru           Left      Int. Total
           Time                            Right                                                                                                                                                   Right              Right                                      Right


    07:00 AM                  67         23            6            11        46           80         19             9                   0       90                0      9              0          7             181                      0            0         1          12          182                0          743
    07:15 AM                  85         40            4            19        68           85         24             5                   0      118                0     15              1          5             231                      0            0         4          20          182                0          906
    07:30 AM                  89         64            4            16        73           86         33             3                   0       78                0     10              0          4             229                      0            2         1          37          156                0          885
    07:45 AM                  94         50           10            23        64          115         41             1                   1      129                0     32              1          6             222                      0            0         4          22          154                0          969
        Total                335        177           24            69       251          366        117            18                   1      415                0     66              2         22             863                      0            2        10          91          674                0         3503

    08:00 AM                  93         75           18            28        73          111         44             6                   0      136                0     30              0         10             241                      0            0         4         32           169                0         1070
    08:15 AM                 106         63           10            17        92          115         51            10                   2      145                0     24              0          7             197                      0            0         9         33           175                0         1056
    08:30 AM                  69         39            4            10        88          139         45             9                   1      102                0     23              0          3             212                      0            1         5         31           149                0          930
    08:45 AM                 111         76            5            29       103          148         81             2                   2       78                0     35              0          5             239                      0            2         5         23           156                0         1100
        Total                379        253           37            84       356          513        221            27                   5      461                0    112              0         25             889                      0            3        23        119           649                0         4156

 Grand Total                 714        430            61         153         607         879         338           45                   6       876               0    178               2        47            1752                      0            5        33         210          1323               0         7659
    Apprch %              52.6          31.7         4.5 11.3               32.4          46.9         18          2.4             0.3   83                        0    16.9         0.2          2.6            97.1                      0        0.3         2.1 13.4                 84.5               0
      Total %              9.3           5.6         0.8    2                7.9          11.5        4.4          0.6             0.1 11.4                        0     2.3           0          0.6            22.9                      0        0.1         0.4  2.7                 17.3               0




                        Quinobequin Road (Route                                                                                              Quinobequin Road (I-95/ 128
                                                                              Washington Street (Route 16)                                                                                                     Walnut Street                                   Washington Street (Route 16)
                              128 Ramps)                                                                                                              Ramps)
                                                                                      From East                                                                                                               From Southwest                                           From West
                              From North                                                                                                            From South
                                 Bear                                                        Bear                                                                        Hard                   Hard           Bear       Bear            Hard                  Hard
 Start Time          Right              Thru       Left      App. Total   Right   Thru                Left      U-Turn      App. Total       Right      Thru     Left            App. Total                                                       App. Total             Right       Thru   Left        App. Total     Int. Total
                                Right                                                        Left                                                                        Left                  Right          Right           Left         Left                Right
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1

Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
 08:00 AM 93 75 18 28 214 73 111 44                  6                                                             0         234 136                         0    30      0       166          10 241                          0            0      251           4       32 169                    0     205 1070
 08:15 AM 106 63 10 17 196 92 115 51 10                                                                            2         270 145                         0    24      0       169           7 197                          0            0        204         9       33 175                    0     217 1056
 08:30 AM                                                                          139                                                       102                                                              212              0            1        216          5       31         149
 08:45 AM            111        76                  29        221 103 148                   81           2         2         336             78              0    35                                          239              0            2      246           5       23 156                    0     184 1100
  Total Volume       379       253         37       84          753       356      513      221                             1122             461                 112       0        573         25            889              0            3        917        23       119         649                               4156
  % App. Total       50.3      33.6      4.9       11.2                   31.7     45.7     19.7      2.4       0.4                          80.5                19.5      0                   2.7            96.9             0        0.3                    2.9
         PHF         .854      .832      .514      .724      .852         .864     .867     .682      .675      .625        .835             .795       .000     .800   .000     .848          .625           .922      .000            .375      .913         .639      .902        .927   .000        .911           .945
                                                                                                                                                     PRECISION
                                                                                                                                                     D A T A
N/S/SW:Quinobequin/I-95 Ramp/Walnut St                                                                                                               INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                                                                         File Name                         : 91860 H
                                                                                                                                          P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Washington Street (Route 16)                                                                                                    Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                                                                         Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Site Code                         : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Start Date                        : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/M. Santos                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Page No                           :1


                                                                                                                                      Groups Printed- Heavy Vehicles
                             Quinobequin Road (Route                                                                                          Quinobequin Road (I-95/                                                                                                Washington Street (Route
                                                                                       Washington Street (Route 16)                                                                                                  Walnut Street
                                   128 Ramps)                                                                                                        128 Ramps)                                                                                                                16)
                                                                                               From East                                                                                                            From Southwest
                                   From North                                                                                                        From South                                                                                                            From West
           Start           Right           Bear
                                                    Thru            Left         Right         Thru      Bear Left        Left        U-Turn               Right       Thru     Left     Hard Left
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Hard           Bear
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Bear Left    Hard Left
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Hard
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Right        Thru           Left      Int. Total
           Time                            Right                                                                                                                                                         Right              Right                                      Right


    07:00 AM                   0             1            0                1            1        2             1              1                0             8           0        0            0              0               1                  0            0          0               0           4              0            20
    07:15 AM                   3             2            0                1            1        5             1              0                0             5           0        3            0              0               1                  0            0          0               0           6              0            28
    07:30 AM                   4             4            0                0            3        3             2              0                0             8           0        4            0              0               3                  0            0          0               1           3              0            35
    07:45 AM                   6             1            0                0            2        3             0              0                0             2           0        1            0              1               0                  0            0          0               1           5              0            22
        Total                 13             8            0                2            7       13             4              1                0            23           0        8            0              1               5                  0            0          0               2          18              0           105

    08:00 AM                   5             1            1                3            3        4             0              0                0             3           0        0            0              1               2                  0            0          0               1           4              0            28
    08:15 AM                   5             2            0                1            4        7             0              0                0             4           0        1            0              2               1                  0            0          1               3           4              0            35
    08:30 AM                   0             0            0                1            2        7             1              0                0             4           0        0            0              0               1                  0            0          0               0           4              0            20
    08:45 AM                   4             2            0                0            4        9             0              0                0             3           0        0            0              0               0                  0            0          0               2           2              0            26
        Total                 14             5            1                5           13       27             1              0                0            14           0        1            0              3               4                  0            0          1               6          14              0           109

 Grand Total                 27           13            1            7              20           40           5           1                    0        37               0       9              0        4                9                      0            0         1           8               32              0            214
   Apprch %                56.2         27.1          2.1         14.6            30.3         60.6         7.6         1.5                    0      80.4               0    19.6              0     30.8             69.2                      0            0       2.4        19.5               78              0
     Total %               12.6          6.1          0.5          3.3             9.3         18.7         2.3         0.5                    0      17.3               0     4.2              0      1.9              4.2                      0            0       0.5         3.7               15              0




                        Quinobequin Road (Route                                                                                                    Quinobequin Road (I-95/ 128
                                                                                   Washington Street (Route 16)                                                                                                      Walnut Street                                   Washington Street (Route 16)
                              128 Ramps)                                                                                                                    Ramps)
                                                                                           From East                                                                                                                From Southwest                                           From West
                              From North                                                                                                                  From South
                                 Bear                                                            Bear                                                                          Hard                   Hard           Bear       Bear            Hard                  Hard
 Start Time          Right              Thru       Left       App. Total       Right    Thru               Left      U-Turn       App. Total       Right      Thru     Left            App. Total                                                       App. Total             Right       Thru     Left        App. Total     Int. Total
                                Right                                                             Left                                                                         Left                  Right          Right           Left         Left                Right
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1

Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
 07:30 AM      4 4     0    0      8    3    3    2                                                           0         0              8            8              0      4     0          12          0              3             0             0            3       0         1              3          0         4           35
 07:45 AM      6 1     0    0      7    2    3    0                                                           0         0              5            2              0      1     0           3          1              0             0             0            1       0         1              5          0         6           22
 08:00 AM      5 1     1    3     10    3    4    0                                                           0         0              7            3              0      0     0           3          1              2             0             0            3       0         1              4          0         5           28
 08:15 AM      5 2     0    1      8    4    7    0                                                           0         0             11            4              0      1     0           5          2                                                               1         3              4          0         8           35
 Total Volume 20 8     1    4     33 12 17        2                                                           0         0             31           17              0      6     0          23          4              6             0             0         10         1         6             16          0        23          120
  % App. Total       60.6      24.2          3     12.1                        38.7     54.8    6.5           0         0                          73.9            0   26.1      0                    40             60              0             0                 4.3       26.1        69.6            0
         PHF         .833      .500      .250      .333       .825             .750     .607    .250       .000      .000         .705             .531       .000     .375   .000     .479          .500           .500      .000            .000      .833         .250      .500        .800     .000        .719           .857
                                                                                                                                       PRECISION
                                                                                                                                       D A T A
N/S/SW:Quinobequin/I-95 Ramp/Walnut St                                                                                                 INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                                                                  File Name                      : 91860 H
                                                                                                                              P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Washington Street (Route 16)                                                                                        Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                                                             Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Site Code                      : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Start Date                     : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/M. Santos                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Page No                        :1


                                                                                                                         Groups Printed- Peds and Bicycles
                       Quinobequin Road (Route                                                                              Quinobequin Road (I-95/ 128
                                                                        Washington Street (Route 16)                                                                                             Walnut Street                                 Washington Street (Route 16)
                             128 Ramps)                                                                                                Ramps)
                                                                                From East                                                                                                       From Southwest                                         From West
                             From North                                                                                              From South
      Start       Right
                               Bear
                                       Thru     Left     Peds          Right        Thru      Bear
                                                                                                         Left    Peds       Right         Thru        Left      Hard
                                                                                                                                                                        Peds
                                                                                                                                                                                    Hard             Bear           Bear      Hard
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Peds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Hard
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Right         Thru         Left    Peds      Int. Total
      Time                     Right                                                           Left                                                              Left               Right            Right          Left       Left             Right

 07:00 AM              0         0       0           0           1           0        0        0         0           0             0          0         0        0         0             0             1             0         0        1          0            0           4         0       0            7
 07:15 AM              0         0       0           0           0           0        2        0         0           0             0          0         0        0         0             0             0             0         0        0          0            0           0         0       0            2
 07:30 AM              0         0       0           0           0           0        0        0         0           0             0          0         0        0         0             0             3             0         1        1          0            0           2         0       0            7
 07:45 AM              0         0       0           0           0           0        0        0         0           0             0          0         0        0         0             0             0             0         0        1          1            0           2         0       0            4
      Total            0         0       0           0           1           0        2        0         0           0             0          0         0        0         0             0             4             0         1        3          1            0           8         0       0           20

 08:00 AM              0         0       0           0           0           0        0        0         0           0             0          0         0        0         0             0             0             0         0        0          0            0           1         0       0            1
 08:15 AM              0         0       0           0           0           0        0        0         0           0             0          0         0        0         0             0             0             0         0        0          0            0           0         0       0            0
 08:30 AM              0         0       0           1           0           0        2        0         0           0             0          0         0        0         0             0             0             0         0        2          0            0           1         0       0            6
 08:45 AM              0         0       0           0           1           0        2        0         0           0             0          0         0        0         0             0             0             0         0        1          0            0           3         0       0            7
      Total            0         0       0           1           1           0        4        0         0           0             0          0         0        0         0             0             0             0         0        3          0            0           5         0       0           14

 Grand Total           0         0       0    1    2                         0    6            0         0           0             0          0         0        0         0             0    4                      0          1    6             1            0          13         0       0           34
 Apprch %              0         0       0 33.3 66.7                         0 100             0         0           0             0          0         0        0         0             0 36.4                      0        9.1 54.5          7.1             0      92.9           0       0
   Total %             0         0       0 2.9 5.9                           0 17.6            0         0           0             0          0         0        0         0             0 11.8                      0        2.9 17.6          2.9             0      38.2           0       0




               Quinobequin Road (Route 128                                                                                  Quinobequin Road (I-95/ 128
                                                                      Washington Street (Route 16)                                                                                               Walnut Street                                  Washington Street (Route 16)
                         Ramps)                                                                                                      Ramps)
                                                                              From East                                                                                                         From Southwest                                          From West
                       From North                                                                                                  From South
                        Bear                             App.                         Bear                       App.                                  Hard              App.    Hard        Bear            Bear     Hard             App.    Hard                                           App.          Int.
 Start Time    Right           Thru    Left   Peds                   Right   Thru             Left    Peds                 Right       Thru   Left             Peds                                                           Peds                      Right       Thru    Left     Peds
                       Right                             Total                         Left                      Total                                  Left             Total   Right       Right           Left      Left            Total   Right                                          Total       Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:00 AM
 07:00 AM     0 0    0    0 1        1   0    0    0    0                                               0          0         0           0        0      0       0         0       0  1                       0        0        1        2       0        0          4          0      0        4         7
 07:15 AM     0 0    0    0    0     0   0    2    0    0                                               0          2         0           0        0      0       0         0       0  0                       0        0        0        0       0        0          0          0      0        0         2
 07:30 AM     0 0    0    0    0     0   0    0    0    0                                               0          0         0           0        0      0       0         0       0  3                       0        1        1        5       0        0          2          0      0        2         7
 07:45 AM     0 0    0    0    0     0   0    0    0    0                                               0          0         0           0        0      0       0         0       0  0                       0        0        1        1       1        0          2          0      0        3         4
 Total Volume 0 0    0    0    1     1   0    2    0    0                                               0          2         0           0        0      0       0         0       0  4                       0        1        3        8       1        0          8          0      0        9        20
 % App. Total 0 0    0    0 100           0 100    0    0                                               0                    0           0        0      0       0                 0 50                       0      12.5     37.5             11.1       0         88.9        0      0
     PHF .000 .000 .000 .000 .250 .250 .000 .250 .000 .000                                            .000      .250       .000        .000   .000     .000    .000     .000     .000        .333        .000        .250     .750    .400     .250     .000        .500    .000     .000   .563       .714
                                                                                                                                                       PRECISION
                                                                                                                                                       D A T A
N/S/SW:Quinobequin/I-95 Ramp/Walnut St                                                                                                                 INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                                                        File Name                  : 91860 H
                                                                                                                                                P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Washington Street (Route 16)                                                                                                          Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                                                                               Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Site Code                  : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Start Date                 : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/M. Santos                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Page No                    :1



                        Quinobequin Road (Route                                                                                                      Quinobequin Road (I-95/ 128
                                                                                        Washington Street (Route 16)                                                                                     Walnut Street                              Washington Street (Route 16)
                              128 Ramps)                                                                                                                      Ramps)
                                                                                                From East                                                                                               From Southwest                                      From West
                              From North                                                                                                                    From South
                                 Bear                                                                      Bear                                                             Hard                 Hard    Bear       Bear    Hard                       Hard
 Start Time           Right             Thru       Left        App. Total           Right    Thru                   Left       U-Turn   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left           App. Total                                       App. Total                     Right   Thru   Left    App. Total   Int. Total
                                Right                                                                       Left                                                            Left                Right   Right       Left     Left                     Right
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1

Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
 08:00 AM 98 76 19 31 224 76 115 44                  6                                                                             0     241 139               0    30       0      169         11 243                0       0      254               4            33 173          0      210 1098
 08:15 AM 111 65 10 18 204 96 122 51 10                                                                                            2     281 149               0    25       0      174          9 198                0       0        207            10            36 179          0      225 1091
 08:30 AM                                                                                    146                                                     106                                                213           0       1        217                5          31    153
 08:45 AM             115       78                               227 107 157                              81           2           2     349         81        0    35                                  239           0      2       246                 5          25 158          0      188 1126
  Total Volume        393      258         38       89             778              369      540        222                             1163         475            113       0       588        28     893           0       3        924             24          125     663                         4265
  % App. Total        50.5     33.2      4.9       11.4                             31.7     46.4        19.1       2.3        0.4                   80.8           19.2      0                    3    96.6          0    0.3                                     15.4    81.7
         PHF          .854     .827      .500      .718         .857                .862     .860        .685       .675       .625      .833        .797    .000   .807   .000     .845        .636    .919      .000     .375     .909            .600           .868    .926   .000    .902         .947
         Cars         379      253         37       84             753              356      513        221                             1122         461            112       0       573        25     889           0      3         917             23          119     649                         4156
     % Cars           96.4     98.1      97.4      94.4         96.8                96.5     95.0        99.5       100        100       96.5        97.1           99.1      0     97.4        89.3    99.6          0    100      99.2            95.8           95.2    97.9           97.4         97.4
   Heavy Vehicles

   % Heavy Vehicles   3.6      1.9       2.6       5.6             3.2              3.5       5.0        0.5           0           0       3.5       2.9       0    0.9      0        2.6       10.7    0.4          0        0        0.8          4.2            4.8     2.1      0        2.6         2.6

                                                                                                                                        Quinobequin Road (Route 128 Ramps)
                                                                                                                                              Out       In      Total
                                                                                                                                               356       753     1109
                                                                                                                                                13        25       38
                                                                                                                                               369       778     1147


                                                                                                                                                  379   253  37               84
                                                                                                                                                   14     5    1                5
                                                                                                                                                  393   258  38               89
                                                                                                                                                Right Bear Thru             Left
                                                                                                                                                      Right




                                                                                                                                            Peak Hour Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Right Thru Bear
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  369

                                                                                                                                                                                                                  356
                                                     Washington Street (Route 16)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Washington Street (Route 16)
                                                                            1798

                                                                            1861




                                                                                                                                                                                                                   13
                                                                              63



                                                                                                0
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                0
                                                                           Total




                                                                                            Left




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2120

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2083
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Out
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              37
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       540

                                                                                                                                                                                                                       513




                                                                                                                                                               North
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        27
                                                                                                        649
                                                                                                         14
                                                                                                        663
                                                                                            Hard Right Thru
                                                                    791
                                                                     21
                                                                    812




                                                                                                                                          Peak Hour Begins at 08:00 AM
                                                                   In




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Left




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1163

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1122
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      In
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            222

                                                                                                                                                                                                                            221
                                                                                                   119
                                                                                                     6
                                                                                                   125




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        41




                                                                                                                                          Cars
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1




                                                                                                                                          Heavy Vehicles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Left U-Turn
                                                        1007

                                                        1049
                                                          42
                                                        Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     27

                                                                                                                                                                                                                     27
                                                                                               23
                                                                                                1
                                                                                               24




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3283

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3205
                                                                                            Right




                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  78
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5
                                                                                    H eft 3
                                                                                     ar
                                                                                      L
                                                                                       d
                                                                                         Be eft 0
                                                                                           ar
                                                                                           L




                                                                                                                                                 Hard
                                                                                             0
                                                                                               3




                                                                                                                                                 Left        Left Thru Right
                                                                                                Be igh 9
                                                                                                  R 88 4
                                                                                                  ar t




                                                                                                                                                     0        112     0  461
                                                                                                    0
                                                       49 7




                                                                                                                                                     0           1    0   14
                                                                                                      0




                                                                                                       H h
                                                         7




                                                                                                        ar t
                                                                                                         R 2 3




                                                                                                                                                     0        113     0  475
                                                           50 t




                                                                                                          d
                                                                                                          i
                                                            O




                                                                                                           89



                                                                                                           g
                                                             4
                                                             u




                                                                                                              3
                                                                        91 7




                                                                                                                5
                                                                          7
                                                                            92




                                                                                                                  28




                                                                                                                                               208      573       781
                                                                              In
                                                                               4


                                                                                                                     14 14 8




                                                                                                                                                10       15         25
                                                                                                                       14




                                                                                                                                               218      588       806
                                                                                                                          14 tal
                                                                                                                           To




                                                                                                                                              Out      In        Total
                                                                                                                            2




                                                     Walnut Street                                                                      Quinobequin Road (I-95/ 128 Ramps)
                                                                                                                                               PRECISION
                                                                                                                                               D A T A
N/S/SW:Quinobequin/I-95 Ramp/Walnut St                                                                                                         INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                                                                         File Name                       : 91860 HH
                                                                                                                                    P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Washington Street (Route 16)                                                                                              Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                                                                   Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Site Code                       : 10865.00
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Start Date                      : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/M. Santos                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Page No                         :1


                                                                                                                         Groups Printed- Cars - Heavy Vehicles
                              Quinobequin Road (Route                                                                                Quinobequin Road (I-95/                                                                                                   Washington Street (Route
                                                                                  Washington Street (Route 16)                                                                                                 Walnut Street
                                    128 Ramps)                                                                                             128 Ramps)                                                                                                                    16)
                                                                                          From East                                                                                                           From Southwest
                                    From North                                                                                             From South                                                                                                                From West
            Start          Right           Bear
                                                    Thru           Left     Right         Thru      Bear Left        Left       U-Turn               Right       Thru     Left     Hard Left
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Hard            Bear
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Bear Left    Hard Left
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Hard
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Right      Thru           Left      Int. Total
            Time                           Right                                                                                                                                                   Right              Right                                      Right


    04:00 PM                   52        93          32             16       107          163         93             4                   0       35                0     17              0          7             112                      0            0        12         40           148                0          931
    04:15 PM                   76        52          33             26       110          149         92             8                   0       55                0     23              0          6             104                      0            0        18         29           192                0          973
    04:30 PM                   60        68          24             16       108          191         93             8                   2       80                0     19              0         13             105                      0            0        10         43           159                0          999
    04:45 PM                   61       106          31             20        98          152         77            10                   0       69                0     15              0         11              95                      0            0         7         52           169                0          973
        Total                 249       319         120             78       423          655        355            30                   2      239                0     74              0         37             416                      0            0        47        164           668                0         3876

    05:00 PM                   62       100          33             12       108          170         91             3                   0       73                0      8              0         21             114                      0            0        14         33           167                0         1009
    05:15 PM                   60       110          42             18       112          135         84             0                   3       90                0     20              0         12             149                      0            0        17         46           176                0         1074
    05:30 PM                   76        80          19             16       115          133         79             8                   0       85                0     24              0         15             122                      0            0        15         61           225                0         1073
    05:45 PM                   87        95          21             23       117          125         70             3                   0      141                0     15              0         11             103                      0            0        15         38           189                0         1053
        Total                 285       385         115             69       452          563        324            14                   3      389                0     67              0         59             488                      0            0        61        178           757                0         4209

 Grand Total                  534       704          235          147         875     1218            679            44                  5       628               0    141               0        96                 904                  0            0       108         342          1425               0         8085
    Apprch %                 33         43.5       14.5  9.1                   31 43.2 24.1                        1.6             0.2 81.7                        0    18.3              0       9.6            90.4                      0            0       5.8 18.2                  76                0
      Total %               6.6           8.7        2.9 1.8                10.8 15.1   8.4                        0.5             0.1  7.8                        0     1.7              0       1.2            11.2                      0            0       1.3  4.2                 17.6               0
        Cars               529           697        225 145                  858 1205 674                            42                  5       618               0    139               0        95                 890                  0            0       108         339          1410               0         7979
      % Cars              99.1            99       95.7 98.6                98.1 98.9 99.3                       95.5            100 98.4                          0    98.6              0        99            98.5                      0            0      100 99.1                  98.9               0          98.7
  Heavy Vehicles              5             7        10    2                   17   13    5                         2              0   10                          0       2              0         1              14                      0            0        0    3                    15               0           106
   % Heavy Vehicles         0.9             1        4.3 1.4                  1.9  1.1  0.7                       4.5              0  1.6                          0     1.4              0         1             1.5                      0            0        0  0.9                   1.1               0           1.3




                        Quinobequin Road (Route                                                                                              Quinobequin Road (I-95/ 128
                                                                              Washington Street (Route 16)                                                                                                     Walnut Street                                   Washington Street (Route 16)
                              128 Ramps)                                                                                                              Ramps)
                                                                                      From East                                                                                                               From Southwest                                           From West
                              From North                                                                                                            From South
                                 Bear                                                       Bear                                                                         Hard                   Hard           Bear       Bear            Hard                  Hard
 Start Time           Right              Thru      Left      App. Total   Right   Thru                Left      U-Turn      App. Total       Right      Thru     Left            App. Total                                                       App. Total             Right       Thru   Left        App. Total     Int. Total
                                Right                                                        Left                                                                        Left                  Right          Right           Left         Left                Right
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1

Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
 05:00 PM 62 100       33   12    207 108 170    91                                                      3         0         372 73                          0     8      0        81          21 114                          0            0        135        14        33         167           0     214           1009
 05:15 PM 60 110 42              230 112 135 84                                                          0         3         334 90                          0    20      0       110          12 149                          0            0      161         17        46 176                    0     239           1074
 05:30 PM 76 80 19 16 191 115 133 79                                                                     8         0         335 85                          0    24                                          122              0            0        137        15       61 225                    0     301           1073
 05:45 PM 87 95 21 23 226 117 125 70                                                                     3         0         315 141                         0    15      0       156          11 103                          0            0        114        15        38         189           0     242           1053
  Total Volume        285      385       115        69          854       452      563     324                              1356             389                                                              488              0            0        547        61       178         757                               4209
  % App. Total        33.4     45.1      13.5      8.1                    33.3     41.5    23.9                 0.2                          85.3                14.7      0                   10.8           89.2             0             0                 6.1       17.9
         PHF          .819     .875      .685      .750      .928         .966     .828    .890       .438      .250        .911             .690       .000     .698   .000     .731          .702           .819      .000            .000      .849         .897      .730        .841   .000        .827           .980
         Cars         282      382       109        68          841       443      557     321                              1337             382                                                              485              0            0        543        61       177         749                               4156
     % Cars           98.9     99.2      94.8      98.6      98.5         98.0     98.9    99.1       92.9      100         98.6             98.2                98.5      0     98.2          98.3           99.4             0             0    99.3         100       99.4        98.9               99.1           98.7
   Heavy Vehicles

   % Heavy Vehicles   1.1      0.8       5.2       1.4          1.5       2.0      1.1     0.9        7.1          0           1.4           1.8             0   1.5      0         1.8        1.7            0.6              0            0        0.7         0       0.6         1.1           0       0.9           1.3
                                                                                                                                               PRECISION
                                                                                                                                               D A T A
N/S/SW:Quinobequin/I-95 Ramp/Walnut St                                                                                                         INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                                                                         File Name                       : 91860 HH
                                                                                                                                    P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Washington Street (Route 16)                                                                                              Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                                                                   Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Site Code                       : 10865.00
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Start Date                      : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/M. Santos                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Page No                         :1


                                                                                                                                             Groups Printed- Cars
                             Quinobequin Road (Route                                                                                            Quinobequin Road (I-95/                                                                                        Washington Street (Route
                                                                                  Washington Street (Route 16)                                                                                                 Walnut Street
                                   128 Ramps)                                                                                                         128 Ramps)                                                                                                         16)
                                                                                          From East                                                                                                           From Southwest
                                   From North                                                                                                          From South                                                                                                    From West
           Start           Right           Bear
                                                    Thru           Left     Right         Thru      Bear Left        Left       U-Turn               Right       Thru     Left     Hard Left
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Hard            Bear
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Bear Left    Hard Left
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Hard
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Right      Thru           Left      Int. Total
           Time                            Right                                                                                                                                                   Right              Right                                      Right


    04:00 PM                  50         93          32             15       105          160         93             3                   0       34                0     17              0          7             110                      0            0        12         39           147                0          917
    04:15 PM                  76         51          31             26       109          147         92             8                   0       55                0     23              0          6             102                      0            0        18         28           189                0          961
    04:30 PM                  60         66          23             16       105          190         91             8                   2       80                0     19              0         13             102                      0            0        10         43           158                0          986
    04:45 PM                  61        105          30             20        96          151         77            10                   0       67                0     14              0         11              91                      0            0         7         52           167                0          959
        Total                247        315         116             77       415          648        353            29                   2      236                0     73              0         37             405                      0            0        47        162           661                0         3823

    05:00 PM                  62         99          32             11       107          168         90             3                   0       71                0      8              0         21             114                      0            0        14         33           164                0          997
    05:15 PM                  58        109          40             18       109          133         83             0                   3       89                0     19              0         12             149                      0            0        17         46           175                0         1060
    05:30 PM                  75         79          18             16       113          132         79             7                   0       81                0     24              0         14             121                      0            0        15         60           222                0         1056
    05:45 PM                  87         95          19             23       114          124         69             3                   0      141                0     15              0         11             101                      0            0        15         38           188                0         1043
        Total                282        382         109             68       443          557        321            13                   3      382                0     66              0         58             485                      0            0        61        177           749                0         4156

 Grand Total                 529        697          225          145         858     1205            674            42                  5       618               0    139               0        95                 890                  0            0       108         339          1410               0         7979
    Apprch %              33.1          43.7       14.1            9.1      30.8          43.3 24.2                1.5             0.2 81.6                        0    18.4              0       9.6            90.4                      0            0       5.8 18.3                 75.9               0
      Total %              6.6           8.7        2.8            1.8      10.8          15.1  8.4                0.5             0.1  7.7                        0     1.7              0       1.2            11.2                      0            0       1.4  4.2                 17.7               0




                        Quinobequin Road (Route                                                                                              Quinobequin Road (I-95/ 128
                                                                              Washington Street (Route 16)                                                                                                     Walnut Street                                   Washington Street (Route 16)
                              128 Ramps)                                                                                                              Ramps)
                                                                                      From East                                                                                                               From Southwest                                           From West
                              From North                                                                                                            From South
                                 Bear                                                       Bear                                                                         Hard                   Hard           Bear       Bear            Hard                  Hard
 Start Time          Right              Thru       Left      App. Total   Right   Thru                Left      U-Turn      App. Total       Right      Thru     Left            App. Total                                                       App. Total             Right       Thru   Left        App. Total     Int. Total
                                Right                                                        Left                                                                        Left                  Right          Right           Left         Left                Right
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1

Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
 05:00 PM 62 99 32 11 204 107 168 90                                                                     3         0         368 71                          0     8      0        79          21 114                          0            0        135        14        33         164           0     211 997
 05:15 PM 58 109 40              225 109 133 83                                                          0         3         328 89                          0    19      0       108          12 149                          0            0      161         17        46 175                    0     238 1060
 05:30 PM 75 79 18 16 188 113 132 79                                                                     7         0         331 81                          0    24                                          121              0            0        135        15       60 222                    0     297 1056
 05:45 PM 87 95 19 23 224 114 124 69                                                                     3         0         310 141                         0    15      0       156          11 101                          0            0        112        15        38         188           0     241 1043
  Total Volume       282       382       109        68          841       443      557     321                              1337             382                                                              485              0            0        543        61       177         749                               4156
  % App. Total       33.5      45.4        13      8.1                    33.1     41.7                         0.2                          85.3                14.7      0                   10.7           89.3             0             0                 6.2       17.9        75.9
         PHF         .810      .876      .681      .739      .934         .971     .829    .892       .464      .250        .908             .677       .000     .688   .000     .718          .690           .814      .000            .000      .843         .897      .738        .843   .000        .831           .980
                                                                                                                                                     PRECISION
                                                                                                                                                     D A T A
N/S/SW:Quinobequin/I-95 Ramp/Walnut St                                                                                                               INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                                                                         File Name                         : 91860 HH
                                                                                                                                          P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Washington Street (Route 16)                                                                                                    Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                                                                         Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Site Code                         : 10865.00
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Start Date                        : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/M. Santos                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Page No                           :1


                                                                                                                                      Groups Printed- Heavy Vehicles
                             Quinobequin Road (Route                                                                                          Quinobequin Road (I-95/                                                                                                Washington Street (Route
                                                                                       Washington Street (Route 16)                                                                                                  Walnut Street
                                   128 Ramps)                                                                                                        128 Ramps)                                                                                                                16)
                                                                                               From East                                                                                                            From Southwest
                                   From North                                                                                                        From South                                                                                                            From West
           Start           Right           Bear
                                                    Thru            Left         Right         Thru      Bear Left        Left        U-Turn               Right       Thru     Left     Hard Left
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Hard           Bear
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Bear Left    Hard Left
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Hard
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Right        Thru           Left      Int. Total
           Time                            Right                                                                                                                                                         Right              Right                                      Right


    04:00 PM                    2            0            0                1           2         3             0              1                0              1          0        0            0              0              2                   0            0          0               1           1              0              14
    04:15 PM                    0            1            2                0           1         2             0              0                0              0          0        0            0              0              2                   0            0          0               1           3              0              12
    04:30 PM                    0            2            1                0           3         1             2              0                0              0          0        0            0              0              3                   0            0          0               0           1              0              13
    04:45 PM                    0            1            1                0           2         1             0              0                0              2          0        1            0              0              4                   0            0          0               0           2              0              14
        Total                   2            4            4                1           8         7             2              1                0              3          0        1            0              0             11                   0            0          0               2           7              0              53

    05:00 PM                    0            1            1                1           1         2             1              0                0              2          0        0            0              0               0                  0            0          0               0           3              0              12
    05:15 PM                    2            1            2                0           3         2             1              0                0              1          0        1            0              0               0                  0            0          0               0           1              0              14
    05:30 PM                    1            1            1                0           2         1             0              1                0              4          0        0            0              1               1                  0            0          0               1           3              0              17
    05:45 PM                    0            0            2                0           3         1             1              0                0              0          0        0            0              0               2                  0            0          0               0           1              0              10
        Total                   3            3            6                1           9         6             3              1                0              7          0        1            0              1               3                  0            0          0               1           8              0              53

 Grand Total                  5            7         10                2            17           13         5             2                    0        10               0       2              0         1              14                      0            0          0          3             15                0            106
   Apprch %                20.8         29.2       41.7              8.3          45.9         35.1      13.5           5.4                    0      83.3               0    16.7              0       6.7            93.3                      0            0          0       16.7           83.3                0
     Total %                4.7          6.6        9.4              1.9            16         12.3       4.7           1.9                    0       9.4               0     1.9              0       0.9            13.2                      0            0          0        2.8           14.2                0




                        Quinobequin Road (Route                                                                                                    Quinobequin Road (I-95/ 128
                                                                                   Washington Street (Route 16)                                                                                                      Walnut Street                                   Washington Street (Route 16)
                              128 Ramps)                                                                                                                    Ramps)
                                                                                           From East                                                                                                                From Southwest                                           From West
                              From North                                                                                                                  From South
                                 Bear                                                            Bear                                                                          Hard                   Hard           Bear       Bear            Hard                  Hard
 Start Time          Right              Thru       Left       App. Total       Right   Thru                Left      U-Turn       App. Total       Right      Thru     Left            App. Total                                                       App. Total             Right       Thru     Left        App. Total     Int. Total
                                Right                                                             Left                                                                         Left                  Right          Right           Left         Left                Right
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1

Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:45 PM
 04:45 PM     0  1     1    0      2    2    1    0                                                           0         0              3             2             0      1     0           3          0              4             0             0            4       0         0             2           0         2             14
 05:00 PM     0  1     1    1      3    1    2    1                                                           0         0              4             2             0      0     0           2          0              0             0             0            0       0         0             3           0         3             12
 05:15 PM     2  1     2           5    3                                                                                              6             1             0      1     0           2          0              0             0             0            0       0         0             1           0         1             14
 05:30 PM     1  1     1    0      3    2    1    0                                                           1         0              4             4             0      0     0           4          1                                                                         1             3           0         4             17
 Total Volume 3  4     5    1     13    8    6    2                                                           1         0             17             9             0      2     0          11          1              5             0             0            6       0         1             9           0        10             57
  % App. Total       23.1      30.8      38.5      7.7                         47.1     35.3    11.8       5.9          0                          81.8            0   18.2      0                   16.7           83.3             0             0                    0        10            90          0
           PHF       .375      1.000     .625      .250       .650             .667     .750    .500       .250      .000         .708             .563       .000     .500   .000     .688          .250           .313      .000            .000      .375         .000      .250        .750     .000        .625           .838
                                                                                                                                         PRECISION
                                                                                                                                         D A T A
N/S/SW:Quinobequin/I-95 Ramp/Walnut St                                                                                                   INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                                                                  File Name                     : 91860 HH
                                                                                                                                P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Washington Street (Route 16)                                                                                          Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                                                               Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Site Code                     : 10865.00
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Start Date                    : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/M. Santos                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Page No                       :1


                                                                                                                           Groups Printed- Peds and Bicycles
                       Quinobequin Road (Route                                                                                Quinobequin Road (I-95/ 128
                                                                         Washington Street (Route 16)                                                                                              Walnut Street                                 Washington Street (Route 16)
                             128 Ramps)                                                                                                  Ramps)
                                                                                 From East                                                                                                        From Southwest                                         From West
                             From North                                                                                                From South
      Start       Right
                               Bear
                                       Thru     Left      Peds          Right        Thru      Bear
                                                                                                          Left     Peds       Right         Thru        Left      Hard
                                                                                                                                                                          Peds
                                                                                                                                                                                      Hard             Bear           Bear      Hard
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Peds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Hard
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Right         Thru        Left    Peds      Int. Total
      Time                     Right                                                            Left                                                               Left               Right            Right          Left       Left             Right

 04:00 PM              0         0       0           0            1           0        0         1        0            0             0          0         0        0         1             0             0             0         0        1          0            0          1         0       0              5
 04:15 PM              0         0       0           0            2           0        1         0        0            0             0          0         0        0         0             0             0             0         0        0          0            0          1         0       0              4
 04:30 PM              0         0       0           0            0           0        0         0        0            0             0          0         0        0         0             0             0             0         0        0          0            0          0         0       0              0
 04:45 PM              0         0       0           0            0           0        0         0        0            0             0          0         0        0         0             0             0             0         0        0          0            0          0         0       0              0
      Total            0         0       0           0            3           0        1         1        0            0             0          0         0        0         1             0             0             0         0        1          0            0          2         0       0              9

 05:00 PM              0         0       0           0            0           0        1         0        0            0             0          0         0        0         2             0             0             0         0        2          0            0          0         0       0            5
 05:15 PM              0         0       1           0            0           0        0         0        0            0             0          0         0        0         0             0             0             0         0        0          0            0          0         0       0            1
 05:30 PM              0         0       0           0            0           0        2         0        0            0             0          0         0        0         0             0             0             0         0        0          0            0          3         0       0            5
 05:45 PM              0         0       0           0            0           0        3         0        0            0             0          0         0        0         3             0             0             0         0        3          0            0          0         0       0            9
      Total            0         0       1           0            0           0        6         0        0            0             0          0         0        0         5             0             0             0         0        5          0            0          3         0       0           20

 Grand Total           0         0       1           0    3                   0    7    1                 0            0             0          0         0        0         6             0             0             0         0        6          0            0          5         0       0           29
 Apprch %              0         0     25            0 75                     0 87.5 12.5                     0        0             0          0         0         0     100              0             0             0          0     100          0            0     100            0       0
   Total %             0         0     3.4           0 10.3                   0 24.1 3.4                  0            0             0          0         0        0 20.7                  0             0              0         0     20.7         0            0     17.2           0       0




               Quinobequin Road (Route 128                                                                                    Quinobequin Road (I-95/ 128
                                                                       Washington Street (Route 16)                                                                                                Walnut Street                                  Washington Street (Route 16)
                         Ramps)                                                                                                        Ramps)
                                                                               From East                                                                                                          From Southwest                                          From West
                       From North                                                                                                    From South
                        Bear                              App.                         Bear                        App.                                  Hard              App.    Hard        Bear            Bear     Hard             App.    Hard                                          App.          Int.
 Start Time    Right           Thru    Left   Peds                    Right   Thru             Left    Peds                  Right       Thru   Left             Peds                                                           Peds                      Right       Thru   Left     Peds
                       Right                              Total                         Left                       Total                                  Left             Total   Right       Right           Left      Left            Total   Right                                         Total       Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
 05:00 PM     0 0   0    0   0     0   0    1   0   0                                                    0           1         0           0        0      0       2         2       0           0              0        0        2        2       0        0          0         0      0        0         5
 05:15 PM     0 0 1      0   0     1   0    0   0   0                                                    0           0         0           0        0      0       0         0       0           0              0        0        0        0       0        0          0         0      0        0         1
 05:30 PM     0 0   0    0   0     0   0    2   0   0                                                    0           2         0           0        0      0       0         0       0           0              0        0        0        0       0        0          3         0      0        3         5
 05:45 PM     0 0   0    0   0     0   0    3   0   0                                                    0           3         0           0        0      0       3         3                                                    3        3       0        0          0         0      0        0         9
 Total Volume 0 0   1    0   0     1   0    6   0   0                                                    0           6         0           0        0      0       5         5       0           0              0        0        5        5       0        0          3         0      0        3        20
 % App. Total 0 0 100    0   0         0 100    0   0                                                    0                     0           0        0      0     100                 0           0              0        0      100                 0        0        100        0      0
      PHF      .000    .000    .250    .000   .000       .250         .000    .500     .000    .000    .000       .500       .000        .000   .000     .000    .417     .417     .000        .000        .000        .000     .417    .417     .000     .000        .250   .000     .000   .250       .556
                                                                                                                                                       PRECISION
                                                                                                                                                       D A T A
N/S/SW:Quinobequin/I-95 Ramp/Walnut St                                                                                                                 INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                                                        File Name                  : 91860 HH
                                                                                                                                                P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Washington Street (Route 16)                                                                                                          Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                                                                               Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Site Code                  : 10865.00
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Start Date                 : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/M. Santos                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Page No                    :1



                        Quinobequin Road (Route                                                                                                      Quinobequin Road (I-95/ 128
                                                                                        Washington Street (Route 16)                                                                                     Walnut Street                              Washington Street (Route 16)
                              128 Ramps)                                                                                                                      Ramps)
                                                                                                From East                                                                                               From Southwest                                      From West
                              From North                                                                                                                    From South
                                 Bear                                                                      Bear                                                             Hard                 Hard    Bear       Bear     Hard                      Hard
 Start Time           Right             Thru       Left        App. Total           Right    Thru                   Left       U-Turn   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left           App. Total                                       App. Total                     Right   Thru   Left    App. Total   Int. Total
                                Right                                                                       Left                                                            Left                Right   Right        Left    Left                     Right
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1

Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
 05:00 PM 62 100       33   12    207 108 170    91                                                                    3           0     372 73                0     8       0       81         21 114                0        0       135             14            33    167      0      214         1009
 05:15 PM 60 110 42              230 112 135 84                                                                        0           3     334 90                0    20       0      110         12 149                0        0     161              17            46 176          0      239         1074
 05:30 PM 76 80 19 16 191 115 133 79                                                                                   8           0     335 85                0    24                                  122           0        0       137             15           61 225          0      301         1073
 05:45 PM 87 95 21 23 226 117 125 70                                                                                   3           0     315 141               0    15       0      156         11 103                0        0       114             15           38     189      0      242         1053
  Total Volume        285      385       115        69             854              452      563        324                             1356         389                                                488           0        0       547             61          178     757                         4209
  % App. Total        33.4     45.1      13.5      8.1                              33.3     41.5        23.9                  0.2                   85.3           14.7      0                 10.8    89.2          0        0                    6.1            17.9
         PHF          .819     .875      .685      .750         .928                .966     .828        .890       .438       .250      .911        .690    .000   .698   .000     .731        .702    .819      .000      .000    .849            .897           .730    .841   .000    .827         .980
         Cars         282      382       109        68             841              443      557        321                             1337         382                                                485           0        0       543           61            177     749                         4156
     % Cars           98.9     99.2      94.8      98.6         98.5                98.0     98.9        99.1       92.9       100       98.6        98.2           98.5      0     98.2        98.3    99.4          0        0    99.3            100            99.4    98.9           99.1         98.7
   Heavy Vehicles

   % Heavy Vehicles   1.1      0.8       5.2       1.4             1.5              2.0       1.1        0.9        7.1            0       1.4       1.8       0    1.5      0        1.8       1.7     0.6           0       0        0.7               0         0.6     1.1      0        0.9         1.3

                                                                                                                                        Quinobequin Road (Route 128 Ramps)
                                                                                                                                              Out       In      Total
                                                                                                                                               443       841     1284
                                                                                                                                                  9       13       22
                                                                                                                                               452       854     1306


                                                                                                                                                  282   382 109               68
                                                                                                                                                    3     3    6                1
                                                                                                                                                  285   385 115               69
                                                                                                                                                Right Bear Thru             Left
                                                                                                                                                      Right




                                                                                                                                            Peak Hour Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Right Thru Bear
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  452

                                                                                                                                                                                                                  443
                                                     Washington Street (Route 16)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Washington Street (Route 16)
                                                                            1892

                                                                            1911
                                                                              19



                                                                                                0
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                0
                                                                           Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    9
                                                                                            Left




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1703

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1684
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Out
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       563

                                                                                                                                                                                                                       557




                                                                                                                                                               North
                                                                                                        749
                                                                                                           8
                                                                                                        757
                                                                                            Hard Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                                                                                          6
                                                                    987
                                                                      9
                                                                    996




                                                                                                                                          Peak Hour Begins at 05:00 PM
                                                                   In




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Left




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1356

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1337
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      In
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             324

                                                                                                                                                                                                                             321
                                                                                                   177
                                                                                                     1
                                                                                                   178




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        19




                                                                                                                                          Cars
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3




                                                                                                                                          Heavy Vehicles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Left U-Turn
                                                         905
                                                          10
                                                         915
                                                        Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     14

                                                                                                                                                                                                                     13
                                                                                               61
                                                                                                0
                                                                                               61




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3059

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3021
                                                                                            Right




                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  38
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3
                                                                                    H eft 0
                                                                                     ar
                                                                                      L
                                                                                       d
                                                                                         Be eft 0
                                                                                           ar
                                                                                           L




                                                                                                                                                 Hard
                                                                                             0
                                                                                               0




                                                                                                                                                 Left        Left Thru Right
                                                                                                Be igh 5
                                                                                                  R 48 3
                                                                                                  ar t




                                                                                                                                                     0         66     0  382
                                                                                                    0
                                                       76 6




                                                                                                                                                     0           1    0    7
                                                                                                      0




                                                                                                       H h
                                                         4




                                                                                                        ar t
                                                                                                         R 5 1




                                                                                                                                                     0         67     0  389
                                                           77 t




                                                                                                          d
                                                                                                          i
                                                            O




                                                                                                           48



                                                                                                           g
                                                             0
                                                             u




                                                                                                              8
                                                                        54 4




                                                                                                                8
                                                                          3
                                                                            54




                                                                                                                  59




                                                                                                                                               357      448       805
                                                                              In
                                                                               7


                                                                                                                     13 10 7




                                                                                                                                                  9        8        17
                                                                                                                       07




                                                                                                                                               366      456       822
                                                                                                                          13 tal
                                                                                                                           To




                                                                                                                                              Out      In        Total
                                                                                                                            1




                                                     Walnut Street                                                                      Quinobequin Road (I-95/ 128 Ramps)
N/S: I-95/128 NB Ramps                                                                     PRECISION                                                         File Name        : 91860 I
                                                                                           D A T A
E/W: Washington Street (Route 16)                                                          INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                   Site Code        : 10865.00
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
                                                                                  Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                                                                                             Start Date       : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/M. Santos                                                                 Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                             Page No          :1


                                                                              Groups Printed- Cars - Heavy Vehicles
                                I-95/128 NB Onramp                   Washington Street (Route 16)            I-95/128 NB Ramps                  Washington Street (Route 16)
                                     From North                              From East                           From South                             From West
             Start Time       Right       Thru          Left          Right        Thru         Left      Right        Thru             Left     Right        Thru         Left      Int. Total
           07:00 AM              0            0              0          70          173               0          138           0         24        68         389            0           862
           07:15 AM              0            0              0          79          170               0          144           0         19       103         471            0           986
           07:30 AM              0            0              0          88          226               0          104           0         22       145         382            0           967
           07:45 AM              0            0              0         100          213               0           87           1         16       156         399            1           973
               Total             0            0              0         337          782               0          473           1         81       472        1641            1          3788

           08:00 AM              0            0              0          88          236               0           70           0          8       159         415            1           977
           08:15 AM              0            0              0         102          257               0          134           0         20       167         397            2          1079
           08:30 AM              0            0              0          88          265               0          132           0         27       140         386            0          1038
           08:45 AM              0            0              0          88          271               0          149           0         42       101         360            0          1011
               Total             0            0              0         366         1029               0          485           0         97       567        1558            3          4105

      Grand Total                0            0              0         703         1811               0         958            1      178        1039        3199           4           7893
        Apprch %                 0            0              0          28           72               0         84.3         0.1      15.7        24.5        75.4        0.1
          Total %                0            0              0          8.9         22.9              0         12.1           0       2.3        13.2        40.5        0.1
            Cars                 0            0              0         679         1745               0         924            1      168        1023        3133           4           7677
          % Cars                 0            0              0         96.6         96.4              0         96.5         100      94.4        98.5        97.9        100            97.3
   Heavy Vehicles                0            0              0          24           66               0           34           0        10         16           66          0            216
 % Heavy Vehicles                0            0              0          3.4          3.6              0          3.5           0       5.6         1.5         2.1          0             2.7




                           I-95/128 NB Onramp                      Washington Street (Route 16)                   I-95/128 NB Ramps               Washington Street (Route 16)
                                From North                                 From East                                  From South                          From West
      Start Time     Right     Thru     Left App. Total          Right   Thru       Left App. Total         Right    Thru     Left App. Total   Right   Thru       Left App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
    08:00 AM         0       0       0        0      88                    236        0          324          70         0      8        78      159       415        1      575        977
     08:15 AM        0       0       0        0     102                    257        0          359         134         0     20       154      167       397        2      566       1079
     08:30 AM        0       0       0        0       88                   265        0          353         132         0     27       159      140       386        0      526       1038
     08:45 AM        0       0       0        0       88                   271        0          359         149         0     42       191      101       360        0      461       1011
 Total Volume        0       0       0        0     366                  1029         0         1395         485         0     97       582      567     1558         3     2128       4105
  % App. Total       0       0       0             26.2                   73.8        0                     83.3         0   16.7               26.6      73.2      0.1
           PHF    .000    .000    .000     .000    .897                   .949     .000          .971       .814      .000   .577       .762    .849      .939    .375       .925       .951
           Cars      0       0       0        0     351                    989        0         1340         465         0     88        553     560     1525         3     2088       3981
       % Cars        0       0       0        0    95.9                  96.1         0          96.1       95.9         0   90.7       95.0    98.8      97.9     100      98.1        97.0
 Heavy Vehicles      0       0       0        0       15                     40       0            55          20        0      9         29        7        33       0        40        124
 % Heavy Vehicles    0       0       0        0      4.1                    3.9       0           3.9         4.1        0    9.3         5.0     1.2       2.1       0       1.9        3.0
N/S: I-95/128 NB Ramps                                                                    PRECISION                                                        File Name         : 91860 I
                                                                                          D A T A
E/W: Washington Street (Route 16)                                                         INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                  Site Code         : 10865.00
City, State: Newton, MA                                                               P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
                                                                                 Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                                                                                           Start Date        : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/M. Santos                                                                Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                           Page No           :1


                                                                                       Groups Printed- Cars
                                I-95/128 NB Onramp                   Washington Street (Route 16)            I-95/128 NB Ramps                 Washington Street (Route 16)
                                     From North                              From East                           From South                            From West
             Start Time       Right       Thru          Left          Right        Thru         Left      Right        Thru            Left     Right        Thru         Left      Int. Total
           07:00 AM              0            0              0          68         168               0          134          0          24        65         378            0           837
           07:15 AM              0            0              0          79         164               0          139          0          18       103         459            0           962
           07:30 AM              0            0              0          85         217               0          103          0          22       140         376            0           943
           07:45 AM              0            0              0          96         207               0           83          1          16       155         395            1           954
               Total             0            0              0         328         756               0          459          1          80       463        1608            1          3696

           08:00 AM              0            0              0          84         224               0           65          0           6       156         405            1           941
           08:15 AM              0            0              0          97         249               0          125          0          19       164         390            2          1046
           08:30 AM              0            0              0          86         256               0          131          0          25       139         375            0          1012
           08:45 AM              0            0              0          84         260               0          144          0          38       101         355            0           982
               Total             0            0              0         351         989               0          465          0          88       560        1525            3          3981

        Grand Total              0            0              0         679        1745               0         924            1      168        1023        3133            4          7677
          Apprch %               0            0              0          28          72               0         84.5         0.1      15.4        24.6        75.3         0.1
           Total %               0            0              0          8.8        22.7              0           12           0       2.2        13.3        40.8         0.1




                           I-95/128 NB Onramp                      Washington Street (Route 16)                  I-95/128 NB Ramps               Washington Street (Route 16)
                                From North                                 From East                                 From South                          From West
      Start Time     Right     Thru     Left App. Total          Right   Thru       Left App. Total        Right    Thru     Left App. Total   Right   Thru       Left App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
    08:00 AM         0       0       0        0      84                   224        0          308          65         0      6        71      156       405       1       562        941
    08:15 AM         0       0       0        0      97                   249        0          346         125         0     19       144      164       390       2       556       1046
    08:30 AM         0       0       0        0      86                   256        0          342         131         0     25       156      139       375       0       514       1012
    08:45 AM         0       0       0        0      84                   260        0          344         144         0     38       182      101       355       0       456        982
 Total Volume        0       0       0        0     351                   989        0         1340         465         0     88       553      560     1525        3      2088       3981
 % App. Total        0       0       0             26.2                  73.8        0                     84.1         0   15.9               26.8        73     0.1
          PHF    .000     .000    .000     .000    .905                  .951     .000          .968       .807      .000   .579       .760    .854      .941    .375       .929       .951
N/S: I-95/128 NB Ramps                                                                    PRECISION                                                         File Name        : 91860 I
                                                                                          D A T A
E/W: Washington Street (Route 16)                                                         INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                   Site Code        : 10865.00
City, State: Newton, MA                                                               P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
                                                                                 Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                                                                                            Start Date       : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/M. Santos                                                                Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                            Page No          :1


                                                                                 Groups Printed- Heavy Vehicles
                                I-95/128 NB Onramp                   Washington Street (Route 16)           I-95/128 NB Ramps                  Washington Street (Route 16)
                                     From North                              From East                          From South                             From West
             Start Time       Right       Thru          Left          Right        Thru         Left     Right        Thru             Left     Right        Thru         Left        Int. Total
           07:00 AM              0            0              0            2           5              0             4         0           0            3          11         0               25
           07:15 AM              0            0              0            0           6              0             5         0           1            0          12         0               24
           07:30 AM              0            0              0            3           9              0             1         0           0            5           6         0               24
           07:45 AM              0            0              0            4           6              0             4         0           0            1           4         0               19
               Total             0            0              0            9          26              0            14         0           1            9          33         0               92

           08:00 AM              0            0              0            4          12              0             5         0           2            3          10         0              36
           08:15 AM              0            0              0            5           8              0             9         0           1            3           7         0              33
           08:30 AM              0            0              0            2           9              0             1         0           2            1          11         0              26
           08:45 AM              0            0              0            4          11              0             5         0           4            0           5         0              29
               Total             0            0              0           15          40              0            20         0           9            7          33         0             124

        Grand Total              0            0              0          24          66               0          34           0        10          16          66            0             216
          Apprch %               0            0              0         26.7        73.3              0         77.3          0       22.7        19.5        80.5           0
           Total %               0            0              0         11.1        30.6              0         15.7          0        4.6         7.4        30.6           0




                           I-95/128 NB Onramp                      Washington Street (Route 16)                  I-95/128 NB Ramps               Washington Street (Route 16)
                                From North                                 From East                                 From South                          From West
      Start Time     Right     Thru     Left App. Total          Right   Thru       Left App. Total        Right    Thru     Left App. Total   Right   Thru       Left App. Total     Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
    08:00 AM         0       0       0        0       4                    12        0            16          5         0      2          7       3         10       0           13        36
    08:15 AM         0       0       0        0       5                     8        0            13          9         0      1         10       3          7       0           10        33
    08:30 AM         0       0       0        0       2                     9        0            11          1         0      2          3       1         11       0           12        26
    08:45 AM         0       0       0        0       4                    11        0            15          5         0      4          9       0          5       0            5        29
 Total Volume        0       0       0        0      15                    40        0            55         20         0      9         29       7         33       0           40       124
 % App. Total        0       0       0             27.3                  72.7        0                       69         0     31               17.5       82.5       0
          PHF    .000     .000    .000     .000    .750                  .833     .000          .859       .556      .000   .563       .725    .583       .750    .000      .769         .861
N/S: I-95/128 NB Ramps                                                             PRECISION                                                                File Name       : 91860 I
                                                                                   D A T A
E/W: Washington Street (Route 16)                                                  INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                          Site Code       : 10865.00
City, State: Newton, MA                                                         P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
                                                                           Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                                                                                            Start Date      : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/M. Santos                                                          Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                            Page No         :1


                                                                       Groups Printed- Peds and Bicycles
                           I-95/128 NB Onramp              Washington Street (Route 16)            I-95/128 NB Ramps                             Washington Street (Route 16)
                                From North                         From East                           From South                                        From West
       Start Time    Right      Thru     Left    Peds     Right   Thru        Left   Peds    Right     Thru     Left               Peds         Right   Thru        Left   Peds       Int. Total
      07:00 AM           0        0        0        1        0         0           0          0           0         0       0           0          0        3        0        0               4
      07:15 AM           0        0        0        0        0         2           0          0           0         0       0           1          0        0        0        0               3
      07:30 AM           0        0        0        0        0         0           0          0           0         0       0           1          0        5        0        0               6
      07:45 AM           0        0        0        1        0         0           0          0           0         0       0           2          0        1        0        0               4
          Total          0        0        0        2        0         2           0          0           0         0       0           4          0        9        0        0              17

      08:00 AM           0        0        0        0        0         0           0          0           0         0       0           1          0        1        0        0               2
      08:15 AM           0        0        0        1        0         1           0          0           0         0       0           2          0        1        0        0               5
      08:30 AM           0        0        0        1        0         2           0          0           0         0       0           2          0        1        0        0               6
      08:45 AM           0        0        0        2        0         2           0          0           0         0       0           1          0        3        0        0               8
          Total          0        0        0        4        0         5           0          0           0         0       0           6          0        6        0        0              21

   Grand Total           0        0        0        6        0        7            0          0           0         0       0       10             0     15          0        0              38
     Apprch %            0        0        0     100         0     100             0          0           0         0       0      100             0    100          0        0
      Total %            0        0        0     15.8        0     18.4            0          0           0         0       0      26.3            0    39.5         0        0




                         I-95/128 NB Onramp                Washington Street (Route 16)                       I-95/128 NB Ramps                    Washington Street (Route 16)
                              From North                           From East                                       From South                              From West
   Start Time Right Thru         Left Peds App. Total Right Thru      Left Peds App. Total        Right       Thru    Left Peds   App. Total   Right  Thru    Left Peds App. Total     Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
  08:00 AM      0       0     0     0        0     0   0   0    0                            0   0    0    0    1                        1  0    1    0    0                      1          2
  08:15 AM      0       0     0     1        1     0   1   0    0                            1   0    0    0    2                        2  0    1    0    0                      1          5
  08:30 AM      0       0     0     1        1     0   2                                     2   0    0    0    2                        2  0    1    0    0                      1          6
  08:45 AM      0       0     0     2        2     0   2   0    0                            2   0    0    0    1                        1  0    3    0    0                      3          8
 Total Volume   0       0     0     4        4     0   5   0    0                            5   0    0    0    6                        6  0    6    0    0                      6         21
 % App. Total   0       0     0 100                0 100   0    0                                0    0    0 100                            0 100     0    0
        PHF .000 .000 .000 .500          .500 .000 .625 .000 .000                        .625 .000 .000 .000 .750                   .750 .000 .500 .000 .000                 .500        .656
N/S: I-95 NB Ramps                                                                                    PRECISION                                                                          File Name           : 91860 I
                                                                                                      D A T A
E/W: Washington Street (Route 16)                                                                     INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                                    Site Code           : 10865.00
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                            P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
                                                                                              Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                                                                                                                         Start Date          : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/M. Santos                                                                             Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                                         Page No             :1



                             I-95 NB Onramp                                    Washington Street (Route 16)                       I-95 NB Ramps                    Washington Street (Route 16)
                                From North                                             From East                                    From South                             From West
      Start Time     Right     Thru     Left App. Total                      Right   Thru       Left App. Total         Right      Thru     Left App. Total      Right   Thru       Left App. Total                 Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
    08:00 AM         0       0       0        0      88                                236        0          324          70         0        8        78         159            415                    1    575       977
     08:15 AM        0       0       0        0     102                                257        0          359         134         0       20       154         167            397                    2    566      1079
     08:30 AM        0       0       0        0       88                               265        0          353         132         0       27       159         140            386                    0    526      1038
     08:45 AM        0       0       0        0       88                               271        0          359         149         0       42       191         101            360                    0    461      1011
 Total Volume        0       0       0        0     366                              1029         0         1395         485         0       97       582         567          1558                     3   2128      4105
  % App. Total       0       0       0             26.2                               73.8        0                     83.3         0     16.7                  26.6           73.2                  0.1
           PHF    .000    .000    .000     .000    .897                               .949     .000          .971       .814      .000     .577       .762       .849           .939                .375     .925      .951
           Cars      0       0       0        0     351                                989        0         1340         465         0       88        553        560          1525                     3   2088      3981
       % Cars        0       0       0        0    95.9                              96.1         0          96.1       95.9         0     90.7       95.0       98.8           97.9                 100    98.1       97.0
 Heavy Vehicles      0       0       0        0       15                                 40       0            55          20        0        9         29           7             33                   0      40       124
 % Heavy Vehicles    0       0       0        0      4.1                                3.9       0           3.9         4.1        0      9.3         5.0        1.2            2.1                   0     1.9       3.0

                                                                                                       I-95 NB Onramp
                                                                                                   Out        In     Total
                                                                                                    354          0    354
                                                                                                     15          0      15
                                                                                                    369          0    369


                                                                                                          0     0          0
                                                                                                          0     0          0
                                                                                                          0     0          0
                                                                                                      Right Thru       Left




                                                                                               Peak Hour Data
                                 Washington Street (Route 16)




                                                                                                                                                                     Washington Street (Route 16)
                                                        3165

                                                        3254
                                                          89
                                                       Total




                                                                                                                                                                       2043

                                                                                                                                                                       1990
                                                                                                                                                                       Out
                                                                    3
                                                                    0
                                                                    3




                                                                                                                                                    Right Thru
                                                                Left




                                                                                                                                                                         53
                                                                                                                                                      366 1029

                                                                                                                                                      351




                                                                                                              North
                                                                                                                                                       15
                                             2088
                                                 40
                                             2128




                                                                                              Peak Hour Begins at 08:00 AM
                                                                  560 1525

                                                                  567 1558
                                                                        33

                                                                Right Thru
                                               In




                                                                                                                                                                                1395

                                                                                                                                                                                1340
                                                                                                                                                                                 In
                                                                                                                                                           989
                                                                                                                                                            40




                                                                                                                                                                                   55




                                                                                              Cars
                                                                                              Heavy Vehicles
                                                                    7




                                                                                                                                                    Left
                                    1077
                                      49
                                    1126
                                    Out




                                                                                                                                                                                          Total
                                                                                                                                                                                          3438

                                                                                                                                                                                          3330
                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                        0



                                                                                                                                                                                            108




                                                                                                      Left Thru Right
                                                                                                        88     0  465
                                                                                                          9    0   20
                                                                                                        97     0  485


                                                                                                    560       553    1113
                                                                                                       7       29      36
                                                                                                    567       582    1149
                                                                                                   Out       In     Total
                                                                                                       I-95 NB Ramps
N/S: I-95/128 NB Ramps                                                                     PRECISION                                                          File Name       : 91860 II
                                                                                           D A T A
E/W: Washington Street (Route 16)                                                          INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                    Site Code       : 10865.00
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
                                                                                  Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                                                                                              Start Date      : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/M. Santos                                                                 Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                              Page No         :1


                                                                              Groups Printed- Cars - Heavy Vehicles
                                I-95/128 NB Onramp                   Washington Street (Route 16)            I-95/128 NB Ramps                  Washington Street (Route 16)
                                     From North                              From East                           From South                             From West
             Start Time       Right       Thru          Left          Right        Thru         Left      Right        Thru             Left     Right        Thru         Left      Int. Total
           04:00 PM              0            0              0         105          339               0           87           1         27        85              204       0           848
           04:15 PM              0            0              0          80          321               0          128           0         14        96              237       0           876
           04:30 PM              0            0              0          82          369               0          112           0         21       101              237       0           922
           04:45 PM              0            0              0          68          292               0          121           0         13        81              259       0           834
               Total             0            0              0         335         1321               0          448           1         75       363              937       0          3480

           05:00 PM              0            0              0          87          331               0          131           0         21       114          273           0           957
           05:15 PM              0            0              0          87          320               0          132           0         12       105          329           0           985
           05:30 PM              0            0              0          76          308               0          151           0         21       100          347           0          1003
           05:45 PM              0            0              0          93          300               0          124           0         19        90          353           0           979
               Total             0            0              0         343         1259               0          538           0         73       409         1302           0          3924

      Grand Total                0            0              0         678         2580               0         986             1     148          772        2239           0          7404
        Apprch %                 0            0              0         20.8         79.2              0         86.9          0.1       13        25.6         74.4          0
          Total %                0            0              0          9.2         34.8              0         13.3            0        2        10.4         30.2          0
            Cars                 0            0              0         670         2541               0         967             1     146          763        2211           0          7299
          % Cars                 0            0              0         98.8         98.5              0         98.1         100      98.6        98.8         98.7          0           98.6
   Heavy Vehicles                0            0              0            8          39               0          19             0        2            9         28           0           105
 % Heavy Vehicles                0            0              0          1.2          1.5              0          1.9            0      1.4          1.2         1.3          0            1.4




                           I-95/128 NB Onramp                      Washington Street (Route 16)                   I-95/128 NB Ramps               Washington Street (Route 16)
                                From North                                 From East                                  From South                          From West
      Start Time     Right     Thru     Left App. Total          Right   Thru       Left App. Total         Right    Thru     Left App. Total   Right   Thru       Left App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
    05:00 PM         0       0       0        0      87                    331        0          418         131         0      21      152      114        273         0    387        957
     05:15 PM        0       0       0        0       87                   320        0          407         132         0      12      144      105        329         0    434        985
     05:30 PM        0       0       0        0       76                   308        0          384         151         0      21      172      100        347         0    447       1003
     05:45 PM        0       0       0        0      93                    300        0          393         124         0      19      143        90       353         0    443        979
 Total Volume        0       0       0        0     343                  1259         0         1602         538         0      73      611      409      1302          0   1711       3924
  % App. Total       0       0       0             21.4                   78.6        0                     88.1         0    11.9              23.9       76.1         0
           PHF    .000    .000    .000     .000    .922                   .951     .000          .958       .891      .000    .869      .888    .897       .922      .000    .957       .978
           Cars      0       0       0        0     339                  1239         0         1578         533         0      72       605     407      1286          0   1693       3876
       % Cars        0       0       0        0    98.8                   98.4        0          98.5       99.1         0    98.6      99.0    99.5       98.8         0    98.9       98.8
 Heavy Vehicles      0       0       0        0        4                     20       0            24           5        0       1          6       2         16        0      18         48
 % Heavy Vehicles    0       0       0        0      1.2                    1.6       0           1.5         0.9        0     1.4        1.0     0.5        1.2        0     1.1        1.2
N/S: I-95/128 NB Ramps                                                                    PRECISION                                                        File Name         : 91860 II
                                                                                          D A T A
E/W: Washington Street (Route 16)                                                         INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                  Site Code         : 10865.00
City, State: Newton, MA                                                               P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
                                                                                 Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                                                                                           Start Date        : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/M. Santos                                                                Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                           Page No           :1


                                                                                       Groups Printed- Cars
                                I-95/128 NB Onramp                   Washington Street (Route 16)            I-95/128 NB Ramps                 Washington Street (Route 16)
                                     From North                              From East                           From South                            From West
             Start Time       Right       Thru          Left          Right        Thru         Left      Right        Thru            Left     Right        Thru         Left      Int. Total
           04:00 PM              0            0              0         104         332               0           86          1          27        83            203         0           836
           04:15 PM              0            0              0          80         318               0          122          0          14        96            233         0           863
           04:30 PM              0            0              0          80         363               0          109          0          20        99            234         0           905
           04:45 PM              0            0              0          67         289               0          117          0          13        78            255         0           819
               Total             0            0              0         331        1302               0          434          1          74       356            925         0          3423

           05:00 PM              0            0              0          87         327               0          128          0          21       113         269            0           945
           05:15 PM              0            0              0          86         315               0          130          0          11       105         326            0           973
           05:30 PM              0            0              0          75         302               0          151          0          21        99         341            0           989
           05:45 PM              0            0              0          91         295               0          124          0          19        90         350            0           969
               Total             0            0              0         339        1239               0          533          0          72       407        1286            0          3876

        Grand Total              0            0              0         670        2541               0         967            1      146          763       2211            0          7299
          Apprch %               0            0              0         20.9        79.1              0         86.8         0.1      13.1        25.7        74.3           0
           Total %               0            0              0          9.2        34.8              0         13.2           0         2        10.5        30.3           0




                           I-95/128 NB Onramp                      Washington Street (Route 16)                  I-95/128 NB Ramps               Washington Street (Route 16)
                                From North                                 From East                                 From South                          From West
      Start Time     Right     Thru     Left App. Total          Right   Thru       Left App. Total        Right    Thru     Left App. Total   Right   Thru       Left App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
    05:00 PM         0       0       0        0      87                    327       0          414         128         0     21       149      113       269        0      382        945
    05:15 PM         0       0       0        0      86                    315       0          401         130         0     11       141      105       326        0      431        973
    05:30 PM         0       0       0        0      75                    302       0          377         151         0     21       172       99       341        0      440        989
    05:45 PM         0       0       0        0      91                    295       0          386         124         0     19       143       90       350        0      440        969
 Total Volume        0       0       0        0     339                  1239        0         1578         533         0     72       605      407     1286         0     1693       3876
 % App. Total        0       0       0             21.5                   78.5       0                     88.1         0   11.9                 24        76        0
          PHF    .000     .000    .000     .000    .931                   .947    .000          .953       .882      .000   .857       .879    .900      .919     .000      .962       .980
N/S: I-95/128 NB Ramps                                                                    PRECISION                                                         File Name        : 91860 II
                                                                                          D A T A
E/W: Washington Street (Route 16)                                                         INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                   Site Code        : 10865.00
City, State: Newton, MA                                                               P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
                                                                                 Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                                                                                            Start Date       : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/M. Santos                                                                Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                            Page No          :1


                                                                                 Groups Printed- Heavy Vehicles
                                I-95/128 NB Onramp                   Washington Street (Route 16)           I-95/128 NB Ramps                  Washington Street (Route 16)
                                     From North                              From East                          From South                             From West
             Start Time       Right       Thru          Left          Right        Thru         Left     Right        Thru             Left     Right        Thru         Left        Int. Total
           04:00 PM              0            0              0            1           7              0             1         0           0            2           1         0               12
           04:15 PM              0            0              0            0           3              0             6         0           0            0           4         0               13
           04:30 PM              0            0              0            2           6              0             3         0           1            2           3         0               17
           04:45 PM              0            0              0            1           3              0             4         0           0            3           4         0               15
               Total             0            0              0            4          19              0            14         0           1            7          12         0               57

           05:00 PM              0            0              0            0           4              0              3        0           0            1           4         0               12
           05:15 PM              0            0              0            1           5              0              2        0           1            0           3         0               12
           05:30 PM              0            0              0            1           6              0              0        0           0            1           6         0               14
           05:45 PM              0            0              0            2           5              0              0        0           0            0           3         0               10
               Total             0            0              0            4          20              0              5        0           1            2          16         0               48

        Grand Total              0            0              0            8         39               0          19           0           2          9         28            0             105
          Apprch %               0            0              0          17          83               0         90.5          0         9.5       24.3        75.7           0
           Total %               0            0              0          7.6        37.1              0         18.1          0         1.9        8.6        26.7           0




                           I-95/128 NB Onramp                      Washington Street (Route 16)                  I-95/128 NB Ramps               Washington Street (Route 16)
                                From North                                 From East                                 From South                          From West
      Start Time     Right     Thru     Left App. Total          Right   Thru       Left App. Total        Right    Thru     Left App. Total   Right   Thru       Left App. Total     Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:00 PM
    04:00 PM         0       0       0        0       1                     7        0             8          1         0      0          1       2          1       0            3         12
    04:15 PM         0       0       0        0       0                     3        0             3          6         0      0          6       0          4       0            4         13
    04:30 PM         0       0       0        0       2                     6        0             8          3         0      1          4       2          3       0            5         17
    04:45 PM         0       0       0        0       1                     3        0             4          4         0      0          4       3          4       0            7         15
 Total Volume        0       0       0        0       4                    19        0            23         14         0      1         15       7         12       0           19         57
 % App. Total        0       0       0             17.4                  82.6        0                     93.3         0    6.7               36.8       63.2       0
          PHF    .000     .000    .000     .000    .500                  .679     .000          .719       .583      .000   .250       .625    .583       .750    .000      .679         .838
N/S: I-95/128 NB Ramps                                                             PRECISION                                                                  File Name     : 91860 II
                                                                                   D A T A
E/W: Washington Street (Route 16)                                                  INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                            Site Code     : 10865.00
City, State: Newton, MA                                                         P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
                                                                           Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                                                                                              Start Date    : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/M. Santos                                                          Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                              Page No       :1


                                                                       Groups Printed- Peds and Bicycles
                           I-95/128 NB Onramp              Washington Street (Route 16)            I-95/128 NB Ramps                             Washington Street (Route 16)
                                From North                         From East                           From South                                        From West
       Start Time    Right      Thru     Left    Peds     Right   Thru        Left   Peds    Right     Thru     Left               Peds         Right   Thru        Left   Peds       Int. Total
      04:00 PM           0        0        0        1        0         1           0          0           0         0       0           2          0          0      0        0               4
      04:15 PM           0        0        0        2        0         1           0          0           0         0       0           0          0          1      0        0               4
      04:30 PM           0        0        0        0        0         0           0          0           0         0       0           1          0          0      0        0               1
      04:45 PM           0        0        0        0        0         0           0          0           0         0       0           3          0          0      0        0               3
          Total          0        0        0        3        0         2           0          0           0         0       0           6          0          1      0        0              12

      05:00 PM           0        0        0        0        0         1           0          0           0         0       0          4           0          0      0        0               5
      05:15 PM           0        0        0        0        0         0           0          0           0         0       0          2           0          1      0        0               3
      05:30 PM           0        0        0        3        0         6           0          0           0         0       0          2           0          1      0        0              12
      05:45 PM           0        0        0        0        0         0           0          0           0         0       0          3           0          1      0        0               4
          Total          0        0        0        3        0         7           0          0           0         0       0         11           0          3      0        0              24

   Grand Total           0        0        0        6        0        9            0          0           0         0       0       17             0        4        0        0              36
     Apprch %            0        0        0     100         0      100            0          0           0         0       0      100             0     100         0        0
      Total %            0        0        0     16.7        0       25            0          0           0         0       0      47.2            0     11.1        0        0




                         I-95/128 NB Onramp                Washington Street (Route 16)                       I-95/128 NB Ramps                    Washington Street (Route 16)
                              From North                           From East                                       From South                              From West
   Start Time Right Thru         Left Peds App. Total Right Thru      Left Peds App. Total        Right       Thru    Left Peds   App. Total   Right  Thru    Left Peds App. Total     Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
  05:00 PM      0       0     0     0        0     0   1   0    0                            1   0    0    0    4                       4         0       0      0    0           0          5
  05:15 PM      0       0     0     0        0     0   0   0    0                            0   0    0    0    2                       2         0       1      0    0           1          3
  05:30 PM      0       0     0     3        3     0   6                                     6   0    0    0    2                       2         0       1      0    0           1         12
  05:45 PM      0       0     0     0        0     0   0   0    0                            0   0    0    0    3                       3         0       1      0    0           1          4
 Total Volume   0       0     0     3        3     0   7   0    0                            7   0    0    0   11                      11         0       3      0    0           3         24
 % App. Total   0       0     0 100                0 100   0    0                                0    0    0 100                                  0     100      0    0
        PHF .000 .000 .000 .250          .250 .000 .292 .000 .000                        .292 .000 .000 .000 .688                   .688       .000    .750   .000 .000      .750        .500
N/S: I-95/128 NB Ramps                                                                                PRECISION                                                                         File Name          : 91860 II
                                                                                                      D A T A
E/W: Washington Street (Route 16)                                                                     INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                                   Site Code          : 10865.00
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                            P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
                                                                                              Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                                                                                                                        Start Date         : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/M. Santos                                                                             Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                                        Page No            :1



                           I-95/128 NB Onramp                                  Washington Street (Route 16)                   I-95/128 NB Ramps                   Washington Street (Route 16)
                                From North                                             From East                                  From South                              From West
      Start Time     Right     Thru     Left App. Total                      Right   Thru       Left App. Total         Right    Thru     Left App. Total       Right   Thru       Left App. Total                Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
    05:00 PM         0       0       0        0      87                                331        0          418         131         0     21        152         114            273                   0    387       957
     05:15 PM        0       0       0        0       87                               320        0          407         132         0     12        144         105            329                   0    434       985
     05:30 PM        0       0       0        0       76                               308        0          384         151         0     21        172         100            347                   0    447      1003
     05:45 PM        0       0       0        0      93                                300        0          393         124         0     19        143           90           353                   0    443       979
 Total Volume        0       0       0        0     343                              1259         0         1602         538         0     73        611         409          1302                    0   1711      3924
  % App. Total       0       0       0             21.4                               78.6        0                     88.1         0   11.9                   23.9           76.1                   0
           PHF    .000    .000    .000     .000    .922                               .951     .000          .958       .891      .000   .869       .888        .897           .922                .000    .957      .978
           Cars      0       0       0        0     339                              1239         0         1578         533         0     72        605         407          1286                    0   1693      3876
       % Cars        0       0       0        0    98.8                               98.4        0          98.5       99.1         0   98.6       99.0        99.5           98.8                   0    98.9      98.8
 Heavy Vehicles      0       0       0        0        4                                 20       0            24           5        0      1           6           2             16                  0      18        48
 % Heavy Vehicles    0       0       0        0      1.2                                1.6       0           1.5         0.9        0    1.4         1.0         0.5            1.2                  0     1.1       1.2

                                                                                                    I-95/128 NB Onramp
                                                                                                   Out       In     Total
                                                                                                    339         0    339
                                                                                                       4        0       4
                                                                                                    343         0    343


                                                                                                          0     0          0
                                                                                                          0     0          0
                                                                                                          0     0          0
                                                                                                      Right Thru       Left




                                                                                               Peak Hour Data
                                 Washington Street (Route 16)




                                                                                                                                                                    Washington Street (Route 16)
                                                        3004

                                                        3043
                                                          39
                                                       Total




                                                                                                                                                                      1840

                                                                                                                                                                      1819
                                                                                                                                                                      Out
                                                                    0
                                                                    0
                                                                    0




                                                                                                                                                   Right Thru
                                                                Left




                                                                                                                                                                        21
                                                                                                                                                     343 1259

                                                                                                                                                     339 1239




                                                                                                              North
                                                                                                                                                       4
                                             1693
                                                 18
                                             1711




                                                                                              Peak Hour Begins at 05:00 PM
                                                                  407 1286

                                                                  409 1302
                                                                        16

                                                                Right Thru
                                               In




                                                                                                                                                                               1602

                                                                                                                                                                               1578
                                                                                                                                                                                In
                                                                                                                                                           20




                                                                                                                                                                                  24




                                                                                              Cars
                                                                                              Heavy Vehicles
                                                                    2




                                                                                                                                                   Left
                                    1311
                                      21
                                    1332
                                    Out




                                                                                                                                                                                         Total
                                                                                                                                                                                         3442

                                                                                                                                                                                         3397
                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                       0



                                                                                                                                                                                            45




                                                                                                      Left Thru Right
                                                                                                        72     0  533
                                                                                                          1    0    5
                                                                                                        73     0  538


                                                                                                    407        605   1012
                                                                                                       2         6      8
                                                                                                    409        611   1020
                                                                                                   Out        In    Total
                                                                                                     I-95/128 NB Ramps
                                                                                 PRECISION
                                                                                 D A T A
N/S: Grove Street                                                                INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                File Name            : 91860 J
                                                                              P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
W: Riverside MBTA Driveway                                               Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                             Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                Site Code            : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                          Start Date           : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                          Page No              :1


                                                                       Groups Printed- Cars - Heavy Vehicles
                                              Grove Street                      Grove Street                          Riverside MBTA Driveway
                                              From North                         From South                                   From West
                        Start Time            Right             Thru             Thru               Left            Right             Left           U-Turn              Int. Total
                      07:00 AM                  11               67               141                    65           15                3                0                   302
                      07:15 AM                   8               77               198                    56           28                7                0                   374
                      07:30 AM                  11               75               138                    50           15                5                0                   294
                      07:45 AM                   9               79               175                    54           33               10                0                   360
                          Total                 39              298               652                   225           91               25                0                  1330

                      08:00 AM                  13               97               146                    45           16                9                0                   326
                      08:15 AM                   8               91               244                    61           34                6                0                   444
                      08:30 AM                   9               96               201                    39           25                6                0                   376
                      08:45 AM                   5               93               188                    36           13                6                0                   341
                          Total                 35              377               779                   181           88               27                0                  1487

                 Grand Total                   74              675               1431                  406         179                 52                0                  2817
                   Apprch %                    9.9             90.1               77.9                 22.1        77.5               22.5               0
                     Total %                   2.6               24               50.8                 14.4         6.4                1.8               0
                       Cars                    73              658               1411                  388         161                 51                0                  2742
                     % Cars                   98.6             97.5               98.6                 95.6        89.9               98.1               0                   97.3
              Heavy Vehicles                     1              17                 20                   18           18                  1               0                    75
            % Heavy Vehicles                   1.4              2.5                1.4                  4.4        10.1                1.9               0                    2.7




                                        Grove Street                              Grove Street                             Riverside MBTA Driveway
                                        From North                                From South                                      From West
              Start Time       Right         Thru       App. Total       Thru           Left          App. Total   Right         Left     U-Turn       App. Total        Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
           07:45 AM             9        79            88                 175              54               229      33          10             0              43            360
           08:00 AM            13        97           110                 146              45               191      16           9             0              25            326
           08:15 AM             8         91           99                 244              61               305      34           6             0              40            444
           08:30 AM             9         96          105                 201              39               240      25           6             0              31            376
       Total Volume            39       363           402                 766             199               965     108          31             0             139           1506
       % App. Total           9.7      90.3                              79.4            20.6                      77.7        22.3             0
                PHF         .750       .936          .914                .785            .816              .791    .794        .775          .000             .808           .848
                Cars           38       355           393                 760             191               951      96          30             0              126          1470
             % Cars         97.4       97.8          97.8                99.2            96.0              98.5    88.9        96.8             0             90.6           97.6
     Heavy Vehicles             1          8             9                   6              8                14      12           1             0               13             36
   % Heavy Vehicles           2.6        2.2           2.2                 0.8            4.0                1.5   11.1         3.2             0              9.4            2.4
                                                                               PRECISION
                                                                               D A T A
N/S: Grove Street                                                              INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                File Name            : 91860 J
                                                                            P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
W: Riverside MBTA Driveway                                             Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                           Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                              Site Code            : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                        Start Date           : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                        Page No              :1


                                                                              Groups Printed- Cars
                                              Grove Street                     Grove Street                         Riverside MBTA Driveway
                                              From North                       From South                                   From West
                        Start Time            Right             Thru           Thru                Left           Right             Left           U-Turn              Int. Total
                      07:00 AM                  11               61             137                    63           15                3                0                   290
                      07:15 AM                   8               77             194                    51           28                7                0                   365
                      07:30 AM                  11               73             133                    49           11                5                0                   282
                      07:45 AM                   9               75             171                    53           29               10                0                   347
                          Total                 39              286             635                   216           83               25                0                  1284

                      08:00 AM                  12               96             145                    43           15                8                0                   319
                      08:15 AM                   8               88             243                    56           30                6                0                   431
                      08:30 AM                   9               96             201                    39           22                6                0                   373
                      08:45 AM                   5               92             187                    34           11                6                0                   335
                          Total                 34              372             776                   172           78               26                0                  1458

                    Grand Total                73               658           1411                   388         161                 51                0                  2742
                      Apprch %                 10                90            78.4                  21.6        75.9               24.1               0
                       Total %                 2.7               24            51.5                  14.2         5.9                1.9               0




                                        Grove Street                            Grove Street                             Riverside MBTA Driveway
                                        From North                              From South                                      From West
              Start Time       Right         Thru       App. Total     Thru           Left          App. Total   Right         Left     U-Turn       App. Total        Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
           07:45 AM             9        75            84               171             53                224      29          10             0              39            347
           08:00 AM            12        96           108               145             43                188      15           8             0              23            319
           08:15 AM             8        88            96               243             56                299      30           6             0              36            431
           08:30 AM             9        96           105               201             39                240      22           6             0              28            373
       Total Volume            38       355           393               760            191                951      96          30             0             126           1470
       % App. Total           9.7      90.3                            79.9           20.1                       76.2        23.8             0
                PHF         .792       .924          .910              .782           .853               .795    .800        .750          .000             .808           .853
                                                                                 PRECISION
                                                                                 D A T A
N/S: Grove Street                                                                INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                 File Name            : 91860 J
                                                                              P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
W: Riverside MBTA Driveway                                               Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                             Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                 Site Code            : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                           Start Date           : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                           Page No              :1


                                                                         Groups Printed- Heavy Vehicles
                                              Grove Street                     Grove Street                            Riverside MBTA Driveway
                                              From North                       From South                                      From West
                        Start Time            Right             Thru           Thru               Left               Right             Left           U-Turn              Int. Total
                      07:00 AM                   0                6                  4                     2            0               0                 0                     12
                      07:15 AM                   0                0                  4                     5            0               0                 0                      9
                      07:30 AM                   0                2                  5                     1            4               0                 0                     12
                      07:45 AM                   0                4                  4                     1            4               0                 0                     13
                          Total                  0               12                 17                     9            8               0                 0                     46

                      08:00 AM                   1                   1                1                    2            1               1                 0                      7
                      08:15 AM                   0                   3                1                    5            4               0                 0                     13
                      08:30 AM                   0                   0                0                    0            3               0                 0                      3
                      08:45 AM                   0                   1                1                    2            2               0                 0                      6
                          Total                  1                   5                3                    9           10               1                 0                     29

                    Grand Total                  1              17                20                     18           18                 1                0                     75
                      Apprch %                 5.6             94.4              52.6                  47.4         94.7               5.3                0
                       Total %                 1.3             22.7              26.7                   24            24               1.3                0




                                        Grove Street                              Grove Street                              Riverside MBTA Driveway
                                        From North                                From South                                       From West
              Start Time       Right         Thru       App. Total       Thru           Left          App. Total    Right         Left     U-Turn       App. Total        Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:00 AM
           07:00 AM             0         6             6                   4                2                  6      0           0            0                0              12
           07:15 AM             0         0             0                   4                5                  9      0           0            0                0               9
           07:30 AM             0         2             2                   5                1                  6      4           0            0                4              12
           07:45 AM             0         4             4                   4                1                  5      4           0            0                4              13
       Total Volume             0        12            12                  17                9                 26      8           0            0                8              46
       % App. Total             0       100                              65.4             34.6                       100           0            0
                PHF         .000       .500          .500                .850             .450             .722     .500        .000         .000              .500           .885
                                                                                    PRECISION
                                                                                    D A T A
N/S: Grove Street                                                                   INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                       File Name     : 91860 J
                                                                                 P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
W: Riverside MBTA Driveway                                                  Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                          Site Code     : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                    Start Date    : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                    Page No       :1


                                                                        Groups Printed- Peds and Bicycles
                                             Grove Street                               Grove Street                                 Riverside MBTA Driveway
                                             From North                                 From South                                          From West
                  Start Time         Right          Thru           Peds         Thru            Left                     Peds       Right          Left          Peds        Int. Total
                 07:00 AM                0              1               0                2                 1                 0           0            0             0                4
                 07:15 AM                0              0               0                0                 0                 0           0            0             0                0
                 07:30 AM                0              0               0                1                 0                 0           0            0             0                1
                 07:45 AM                0              0               0                0                 0                 0           0            0             0                0
                     Total               0              1               0                3                 1                 0           0            0             0                5

                 08:00 AM                0              1               0                0                 0                 0           0            0             2               3
                 08:15 AM                0              1               0                0                 0                 0           0            0             3               4
                 08:30 AM                0              1               0                0                 0                 0           1            0             2               4
                 08:45 AM                0              0               0                0                 0                 0           1            0             4               5
                     Total               0              3               0                0                 0                 0           2            0            11              16

              Grand Total                0             4                0              3                  1                  0         2              0           11               21
                Apprch %                 0           100                0             75                 25                  0      15.4              0          84.6
                 Total %                 0            19                0           14.3                4.8                  0       9.5              0          52.4




                                        Grove Street                                         Grove Street                               Riverside MBTA Driveway
                                        From North                                           From South                                         From West
           Start Time      Right       Thru       Peds     App. Total        Thru            Left      Peds          App. Total   Right       Left     Peds     App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
        08:00 AM           0         1         0                   1           0             0             0                 0       0          0         2              2          3
        08:15 AM           0         1         0                   1           0             0             0                 0       0          0         3              3          4
        08:30 AM           0         1         0                   1           0             0             0                 0       1          0         2              3          4
        08:45 AM           0         0         0                   0           0             0             0                 0       1          0         4              5          5
     Total Volume          0         3         0                   3           0             0             0                 0       2          0        11             13         16
     % App. Total          0       100         0                               0             0             0                      15.4          0      84.6
              PHF       .000      .750      .000                .750        .000          .000          .000             .000     .500       .000      .688          .650        .800
                                                                                    PRECISION
                                                                                    D A T A
N/S: Grove Street                                                                   INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                File Name          : 91860 J
                                                                               P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
W: Riverside MBTA Driveway                                                Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                              Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                   Site Code          : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                             Start Date         : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                             Page No            :1



                                        Grove Street                                 Grove Street                              Riverside MBTA Driveway
                                        From North                                   From South                                       From West
              Start Time       Right         Thru       App. Total        Thru             Left         App. Total     Right         Left     U-Turn     App. Total       Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
           07:45 AM             9        79            88                  175                54               229       33          10           0            43             360
           08:00 AM            13        97           110                  146                45               191       16           9           0            25             326
           08:15 AM             8         91           99                  244                61               305       34           6           0            40             444
           08:30 AM             9         96          105                  201                39               240       25           6           0            31             376
       Total Volume            39       363           402                  766               199               965      108          31           0           139            1506
       % App. Total           9.7      90.3                               79.4              20.6                       77.7        22.3           0
                PHF         .750       .936          .914                 .785              .816               .791    .794        .775        .000          .808             .848
                Cars           38       355           393                  760               191                951      96          30           0           126            1470
             % Cars         97.4       97.8          97.8                 99.2              96.0               98.5    88.9        96.8           0          90.6             97.6
     Heavy Vehicles             1          8             9                    6                8                 14      12           1           0            13               36
   % Heavy Vehicles           2.6        2.2           2.2                  0.8              4.0                 1.5   11.1         3.2           0           9.4              2.4

                                                                                          Grove Street
                                                                                  Out         In       Total
                                                                                   790         393     1183
                                                                                      7          9        16
                                                                                   797         402     1199


                                                                                             38  355
                                                                                              1     8
                                                                                             39  363
                                                                                          Right Thru




                                                                           Peak Hour Data
                                                    355
                                                      22
                                                    377
                                                   Total
                               Riverside MBTA Driveway




                                                             30
                                                               1
                                                             31
                                                           Left




                                                                                             North
                                            126
                                             13
                                            139




                                                                          Peak Hour Begins at 07:45 AM
                                                                     96
                                                                     12
                                                                    108
                                                           U-Turn Right
                                           In




                                                                          Cars
                                                                          Heavy Vehicles
                                                               0
                                                               0
                                                               0
                                  229
                                     9
                                  238
                                 Out




                                                                                          Left Thru
                                                                                           191  760
                                                                                              8    6
                                                                                           199  766


                                                                                   451         951     1402
                                                                                    20          14        34
                                                                                   471         965     1436
                                                                                  Out         In       Total
                                                                                          Grove Street
                                                                                 PRECISION
                                                                                 D A T A
N/S: Grove Street                                                                INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                 File Name            : 91860 JJ
                                                                              P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
W: Riverside MBTA Driveway                                               Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                             Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                 Site Code            : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                           Start Date           : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                           Page No              :1


                                                                       Groups Printed- Cars - Heavy Vehicles
                                              Grove Street                      Grove Street                          Riverside MBTA Driveway
                                              From North                         From South                                   From West
                        Start Time            Right             Thru             Thru               Left            Right             Left           U-Turn               Int. Total
                      04:00 PM                   4              141                72                    22          27                 7                0                    273
                      04:15 PM                   6              122                79                    23          32                 4                0                    266
                      04:30 PM                   7              123                98                    23          21                 7                1                    280
                      04:45 PM                   7              144                80                    26          56                 7                1                    321
                          Total                 24              530               329                    94         136                25                2                   1140

                      05:00 PM                   8              192               103                    40          47                 9                1                    400
                      05:15 PM                   6              183               115                    28          34                 9                0                    375
                      05:30 PM                   9              187               132                    35          52                14                0                    429
                      05:45 PM                   6              132               120                    33          57                12                0                    360
                          Total                 29              694               470                   136         190                44                1                   1564

                 Grand Total                    53             1224              799                   230         326                  69                3                  2704
                   Apprch %                     4.2             95.8             77.6                  22.4        81.9               17.3             0.8
                     Total %                      2             45.3             29.5                   8.5        12.1                2.6              0.1
                       Cars                     53             1215              780                   217         303                  69                3                  2640
                     % Cars                    100              99.3             97.6                  94.3        92.9               100              100                    97.6
              Heavy Vehicles                      0                9               19                   13           23                  0                0                    64
            % Heavy Vehicles                      0              0.7              2.4                   5.7         7.1                  0                0                    2.4




                                        Grove Street                              Grove Street                             Riverside MBTA Driveway
                                        From North                                From South                                      From West
              Start Time       Right         Thru       App. Total       Thru           Left          App. Total   Right         Left     U-Turn       App. Total         Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
           05:00 PM             8       192           200                 103             40                143       47          9             1              57             400
           05:15 PM             6       183           189                 115             28                143       34          9             0              43             375
           05:30 PM             9       187           196                 132             35                167       52         14             0              66             429
           05:45 PM             6       132           138                 120             33                153       57                                       69
      Total Volume             29       694           723                 470            136                606     190          44              1            235            1564
       % App. Total             4         96                             77.6           22.4                       80.9        18.7            0.4
                PHF         .806       .904          .904                .890           .850               .907    .833        .786          .250             .851            .911
               Cars            29       690           719                 463            128                591     177          44              1             222           1532
             % Cars          100       99.4          99.4                98.5           94.1               97.5    93.2         100           100             94.5            98.0
     Heavy Vehicles             0          4             4                   7             8                 15       13          0              0               13             32
  % Heavy Vehicles              0        0.6           0.6                 1.5           5.9                 2.5     6.8          0              0              5.5            2.0
                                                                               PRECISION
                                                                               D A T A
N/S: Grove Street                                                              INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                File Name            : 91860 JJ
                                                                            P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
W: Riverside MBTA Driveway                                             Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                           Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                              Site Code            : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                        Start Date           : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                        Page No              :1


                                                                              Groups Printed- Cars
                                              Grove Street                     Grove Street                         Riverside MBTA Driveway
                                              From North                       From South                                   From West
                        Start Time            Right             Thru           Thru                Left           Right             Left           U-Turn              Int. Total
                      04:00 PM                   4              139              66                    21          25                 7                0                   262
                      04:15 PM                   6              122              78                    23          29                 4                0                   262
                      04:30 PM                   7              122              96                    19          19                 7                1                   271
                      04:45 PM                   7              142              77                    26          53                 7                1                   313
                          Total                 24              525             317                    89         126                25                2                  1108

                      05:00 PM                   8              190             100                    35          44                 9                1                   387
                      05:15 PM                   6              182             113                    28          30                 9                0                   368
                      05:30 PM                   9              186             132                    34          49                14                0                   424
                      05:45 PM                   6              132             118                    31          54                12                0                   353
                          Total                 29              690             463                   128         177                44                1                  1532

                    Grand Total                53              1215            780                   217         303                  69               3                  2640
                      Apprch %                 4.2              95.8           78.2                  21.8        80.8               18.4             0.8
                       Total %                   2               46            29.5                   8.2        11.5                2.6             0.1




                                        Grove Street                            Grove Street                             Riverside MBTA Driveway
                                        From North                              From South                                      From West
              Start Time       Right         Thru       App. Total     Thru           Left          App. Total   Right         Left     U-Turn       App. Total        Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
           05:00 PM             8       190           198               100             35                135      44           9             1              54            387
           05:15 PM             6       182           188               113             28                141      30           9             0              39            368
           05:30 PM             9       186           195               132             34                166      49          14             0              63            424
           05:45 PM             6       132           138               118             31                149      54                                        66
      Total Volume             29       690           719               463            128                591     177          44             1             222           1532
       % App. Total             4        96                            78.3           21.7                       79.7        19.8           0.5
                PHF         .806       .908          .908              .877           .914               .890    .819        .786          .250             .841           .903
                                                                                 PRECISION
                                                                                 D A T A
N/S: Grove Street                                                                INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                 File Name            : 91860 JJ
                                                                              P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
W: Riverside MBTA Driveway                                               Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                             Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                 Site Code            : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                           Start Date           : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                           Page No              :1


                                                                         Groups Printed- Heavy Vehicles
                                              Grove Street                     Grove Street                            Riverside MBTA Driveway
                                              From North                       From South                                      From West
                        Start Time            Right             Thru           Thru               Left               Right             Left           U-Turn              Int. Total
                      04:00 PM                   0                   2               6                     1            2               0                 0                     11
                      04:15 PM                   0                   0               1                     0            3               0                 0                      4
                      04:30 PM                   0                   1               2                     4            2               0                 0                      9
                      04:45 PM                   0                   2               3                     0            3               0                 0                      8
                          Total                  0                   5              12                     5           10               0                 0                     32

                      05:00 PM                   0                   2                3                    5            3               0                 0                     13
                      05:15 PM                   0                   1                2                    0            4               0                 0                      7
                      05:30 PM                   0                   1                0                    1            3               0                 0                      5
                      05:45 PM                   0                   0                2                    2            3               0                 0                      7
                          Total                  0                   4                7                    8           13               0                 0                     32

                    Grand Total                  0                9               19                     13          23                 0                 0                     64
                      Apprch %                   0             100               59.4                  40.6         100                 0                 0
                       Total %                   0             14.1              29.7                  20.3         35.9                0                 0




                                        Grove Street                              Grove Street                              Riverside MBTA Driveway
                                        From North                                From South                                       From West
              Start Time       Right         Thru       App. Total       Thru           Left          App. Total    Right         Left     U-Turn       App. Total        Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:30 PM
           04:30 PM             0         1             1                   2                4                  6      2           0             0               2               9
           04:45 PM             0         2             2                   3                0                  3      3           0             0               3               8
           05:00 PM             0         2             2                   3                5                  8      3           0             0               3              13
           05:15 PM             0         1             1                   2                0                  2      4                                         4
      Total Volume              0         6             6                  10                9                 19     12           0           0                12              37
       % App. Total             0       100                              52.6             47.4                       100           0           0
                PHF         .000       .750          .750                .833             .450             .594     .750        .000        .000               .750           .712
                                                                                    PRECISION
                                                                                    D A T A
N/S: Grove Street                                                                   INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                       File Name     : 91860 JJ
                                                                                 P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
W: Riverside MBTA Driveway                                                  Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                          Site Code     : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                    Start Date    : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                    Page No       :1


                                                                        Groups Printed- Peds and Bicycles
                                             Grove Street                               Grove Street                                 Riverside MBTA Driveway
                                             From North                                 From South                                          From West
                  Start Time         Right          Thru           Peds         Thru            Left                     Peds       Right          Left          Peds        Int. Total
                 04:00 PM                0              1               1                0                 0                 0           0            0             1                3
                 04:15 PM                0              0               0                0                 0                 0           0            0             0                0
                 04:30 PM                0              1               0                0                 0                 0           0            0             0                1
                 04:45 PM                0              0               0                0                 0                 0           0            0             3                3
                     Total               0              2               1                0                 0                 0           0            0             4                7

                 05:00 PM                0              1               0                0                 0                 0           0            0             1                2
                 05:15 PM                0              1               0                1                 0                 0           0            0             1                3
                 05:30 PM                0              0               0                0                 0                 0           0            0             2                2
                 05:45 PM                0              0               0                0                 0                 0           0            0             0                0
                     Total               0              2               0                1                 0                 0           0            0             4                7

              Grand Total                0             4              1                 1                  0                 0           0            0             8              14
                Apprch %                 0           80             20               100                   0                 0           0            0          100
                 Total %                 0          28.6            7.1               7.1                  0                 0           0            0          57.1




                                        Grove Street                                         Grove Street                               Riverside MBTA Driveway
                                        From North                                           From South                                         From West
           Start Time      Right       Thru       Peds     App. Total        Thru            Left      Peds          App. Total   Right       Left     Peds     App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:45 PM
        04:45 PM           0         0         0                   0           0             0             0                 0       0          0         3             3           3
        05:00 PM           0         1                             1           0             0             0                 0       0          0         1             1           2
        05:15 PM           0         1         0                   1           1             0             0                 1       0          0         1             1           3
        05:30 PM           0         0         0                   0           0             0             0                 0       0          0         2             2           2
     Total Volume          0         2         0                   2           1             0             0                 1       0          0         7             7          10
     % App. Total          0       100         0                             100             0             0                         0          0       100
              PHF       .000      .500      .000                .500        .250          .000          .000             .250     .000       .000      .583          .583        .833
                                                                                    PRECISION
                                                                                    D A T A
N/S: Grove Street                                                                   INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                File Name          : 91860 JJ
                                                                               P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
W: Riverside MBTA Driveway                                                Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                              Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                   Site Code          : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                             Start Date         : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                             Page No            :1



                                        Grove Street                                 Grove Street                              Riverside MBTA Driveway
                                        From North                                   From South                                       From West
              Start Time       Right         Thru       App. Total        Thru             Left         App. Total     Right         Left     U-Turn     App. Total       Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
           05:00 PM             8       192           200                  103                40               143        47          9           1            57             400
           05:15 PM             6       183           189                  115                28               143        34          9           0            43             375
           05:30 PM             9       187           196                  132                35               167        52         14           0            66             429
           05:45 PM             6       132           138                  120                33               153        57                                   69
      Total Volume             29       694           723                  470               136               606      190          44            1          235            1564
       % App. Total             4         96                              77.6              22.4                       80.9        18.7          0.4
                PHF         .806       .904          .904                 .890              .850               .907    .833        .786        .250          .851             .911
               Cars            29       690           719                  463               128                591     177          44            1          222            1532
             % Cars          100       99.4          99.4                 98.5              94.1               97.5    93.2         100         100          94.5             98.0
     Heavy Vehicles             0          4             4                    7                8                 15       13          0            0            13              32
  % Heavy Vehicles              0        0.6           0.6                  1.5              5.9                 2.5     6.8          0            0           5.5             2.0

                                                                                          Grove Street
                                                                                  Out         In       Total
                                                                                   507         719     1226
                                                                                      7          4        11
                                                                                   514         723     1237


                                                                                             29  690
                                                                                              0     4
                                                                                             29  694
                                                                                          Right Thru




                                                                           Peak Hour Data
                                                    379
                                                      21
                                                    400
                                                   Total
                               Riverside MBTA Driveway




                                                             44
                                                               0
                                                             44
                                                           Left




                                                                                             North
                                            222
                                             13
                                            235




                                                                          Peak Hour Begins at 05:00 PM
                                                                    177
                                                                     13
                                                                    190
                                                           U-Turn Right
                                           In




                                                                          Cars
                                                                          Heavy Vehicles
                                                               1
                                                               0
                                                               1
                                  157
                                     8
                                  165
                                 Out




                                                                                          Left Thru
                                                                                           128  463
                                                                                              8    7
                                                                                           136  470


                                                                                   867         591     1458
                                                                                    17          15        32
                                                                                   884         606     1490
                                                                                  Out         In       Total
                                                                                          Grove Street
                                                                                             PRECISION
                                                                                             D A T A
N/S: Grove Street                                                                            INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                        File Name         : 91860 K
                                                                                        P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Condo Drwy/Office Building South                                              Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                       Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                    Site Code         : 10865.00
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                             Start Date        : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/M. Santos                                                                                                                                               Page No           :1


                                                                                Groups Printed- Cars - Heavy Vehicles
                                    Grove Street                             Condo Driveway                       Grove Street                            Office Building South
                                    From North                                 From East                           From South                                  From West
             Start Time       Right       Thru          Left             Right      Thru         Left       Right       Thru                  Left      Right         Thru         Left        Int. Total
           07:00 AM              0          70               3              2            0             2              1         143              0            3          0           0             224
           07:15 AM              0          71               0              0            0             5              1         208              0            1          0           0             286
           07:30 AM              0          81               0              1            0             1              1         140              0            2          0           0             226
           07:45 AM              0          87               3              3            0             1              0         186              0            1          0           0             281
               Total             0         309               6              6            0             9              3         677              0            7          0           0            1017

           08:00 AM              0          94               1              1            0             3              0         151              0         3             0           0             253
           08:15 AM              0          90               2              0            0             4              0         244              0         3             0           1             344
           08:30 AM              0          97               0              1            0             1              0         199              0         3             0           0             301
           08:45 AM              0          91               0              2            0             2              3         187              0         4             0           0             289
               Total             0         372               3              4            0            10              3         781              0        13             0           1            1187

      Grand Total                0        681            9                10             0          19               6         1458              0       20              0           1            2204
        Apprch %                 0        98.7         1.3               34.5            0         65.5            0.4          99.6             0      95.2             0         4.8
          Total %                0        30.9         0.4                0.5            0          0.9            0.3          66.2             0       0.9             0           0
            Cars                 0        663            8                10             0           19              6         1438              0       19              0           1            2164
          % Cars                 0        97.4        88.9               100             0         100            100           98.6             0       95              0        100              98.2
   Heavy Vehicles                0          18           1                  0            0            0              0            20             0         1             0           0              40
 % Heavy Vehicles                0         2.6        11.1                  0            0            0              0           1.4             0         5             0           0              1.8




                               Grove Street                               Condo Driveway                                  Grove Street                       Office Building South
                               From North                                   From East                                      From South                             From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total          Right     Thru     Left App. Total          Right        Thru     Left   App. Total   Right     Thru       Left App. Total    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
    08:00 AM         0      94        1      95       1                       0        3             4           0      151          0         151        3          0       0             3      253
     08:15 AM        0       90       2       92      0                       0        4             4           0      244          0         244        3          0       1             4      344
     08:30 AM        0      97        0      97       1                       0        1             2           0      199          0         199        3          0       0             3      301
     08:45 AM        0       91       0      91       2                       0        2             4           3      187          0         190        4          0       0             4      289
 Total Volume        0     372        3     375       4                       0       10            14           3      781          0         784       13          0       1            14     1187
  % App. Total       0    99.2      0.8            28.6                       0     71.4                       0.4     99.6          0                 92.9          0     7.1
           PHF    .000    .959    .375     .966    .500                    .000     .625          .875       .250      .800       .000        .803     .813       .000   .250        .875         .863
           Cars      0     365        3     368       4                       0       10            14           3      776          0         779       12          0       1         13        1174
       % Cars        0    98.1     100     98.1     100                       0      100           100        100      99.4          0        99.4     92.3          0    100        92.9         98.9
 Heavy Vehicles      0        7       0        7      0                       0        0             0           0         5         0            5       1          0       0          1           13
 % Heavy Vehicles    0      1.9       0      1.9      0                       0        0             0           0       0.6         0          0.6     7.7          0       0        7.1          1.1
                                                                                            PRECISION
                                                                                            D A T A
N/S: Grove Street                                                                           INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                         File Name         : 91860 K
                                                                                       P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Condo Drwy/Office Building South                                             Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                      Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                    Site Code         : 10865.00
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                             Start Date        : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/M. Santos                                                                                                                                               Page No           :1


                                                                                        Groups Printed- Cars
                                    Grove Street                             Condo Driveway                      Grove Street                             Office Building South
                                    From North                                 From East                         From South                                    From West
             Start Time       Right       Thru          Left             Right      Thru        Left       Right       Thru                   Left      Right         Thru         Left        Int. Total
           07:00 AM              0          67               2              2           0             2              1          138              0            3          0           0             215
           07:15 AM              0          71               0              0           0             5              1          205              0            1          0           0             283
           07:30 AM              0          79               0              1           0             1              1          137              0            2          0           0             221
           07:45 AM              0          81               3              3           0             1              0          182              0            1          0           0             271
               Total             0         298               5              6           0             9              3          662              0            7          0           0             990

           08:00 AM              0          92               1              1           0             3              0          149              0         2             0           0             248
           08:15 AM              0          88               2              0           0             4              0          242              0         3             0           1             340
           08:30 AM              0          96               0              1           0             1              0          199              0         3             0           0             300
           08:45 AM              0          89               0              2           0             2              3          186              0         4             0           0             286
               Total             0         365               3              4           0            10              3          776              0        12             0           1            1174

        Grand Total              0        663             8               10            0          19                 6        1438              0        19             0           1            2164
          Apprch %               0        98.8          1.2              34.5           0         65.5              0.4         99.6             0        95             0           5
           Total %               0        30.6          0.4               0.5           0          0.9              0.3         66.5             0        0.9            0           0




                               Grove Street                               Condo Driveway                                  Grove Street                       Office Building South
                               From North                                   From East                                      From South                             From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total          Right     Thru     Left App. Total         Right         Thru     Left   App. Total   Right     Thru       Left App. Total    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
    08:00 AM         0      92       1       93       1                       0        3            4          0       149           0         149        2          0      0              2      248
    08:15 AM         0      88       2       90       0                       0        4            4          0       242           0         242        3          0      1              4      340
    08:30 AM         0      96       0       96       1                       0        1            2          0       199           0         199        3          0      0              3      300
    08:45 AM         0      89       0       89       2                       0        2            4          3       186           0         189        4          0      0              4      286
 Total Volume        0     365       3      368       4                       0       10           14          3       776           0         779       12          0      1             13     1174
 % App. Total        0    99.2     0.8             28.6                       0     71.4                     0.4      99.6           0                 92.3          0    7.7
          PHF    .000     .951    .375     .958    .500                    .000     .625         .875       .250      .802        .000        .805     .750       .000   .250        .813         .863
                                                                                            PRECISION
                                                                                            D A T A
N/S: Grove Street                                                                           INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                        File Name         : 91860 K
                                                                                       P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Condo Drwy/Office Building South                                             Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                      Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                   Site Code         : 10865.00
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                            Start Date        : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/M. Santos                                                                                                                                              Page No           :1


                                                                                  Groups Printed- Heavy Vehicles
                                    Grove Street                             Condo Driveway                      Grove Street                            Office Building South
                                    From North                                 From East                         From South                                   From West
             Start Time       Right       Thru          Left             Right      Thru        Left      Right        Thru                  Left      Right         Thru         Left       Int. Total
           07:00 AM              0           3               1              0           0             0              0            5             0            0          0           0               9
           07:15 AM              0           0               0              0           0             0              0            3             0            0          0           0               3
           07:30 AM              0           2               0              0           0             0              0            3             0            0          0           0               5
           07:45 AM              0           6               0              0           0             0              0            4             0            0          0           0              10
               Total             0          11               1              0           0             0              0           15             0            0          0           0              27

           08:00 AM              0            2              0              0           0             0              0            2             0            1          0           0               5
           08:15 AM              0            2              0              0           0             0              0            2             0            0          0           0               4
           08:30 AM              0            1              0              0           0             0              0            0             0            0          0           0               1
           08:45 AM              0            2              0              0           0             0              0            1             0            0          0           0               3
               Total             0            7              0              0           0             0              0            5             0            1          0           0              13

        Grand Total              0          18            1                 0           0             0              0          20              0          1            0           0              40
          Apprch %               0        94.7          5.3                 0           0             0              0         100              0       100             0           0
           Total %               0          45          2.5                 0           0             0              0          50              0        2.5            0           0




                               Grove Street                               Condo Driveway                                 Grove Street                       Office Building South
                               From North                                   From East                                     From South                             From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total          Right     Thru     Left App. Total         Right        Thru     Left   App. Total   Right     Thru       Left App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:00 AM
    07:00 AM         0       3       1        4       0                       0        0             0         0         5          0           5        0          0      0             0          9
    07:15 AM         0       0       0        0       0                       0        0             0         0         3          0           3        0          0      0             0          3
    07:30 AM         0       2       0        2       0                       0        0             0         0         3          0           3        0          0      0             0          5
    07:45 AM         0       6       0        6       0                       0        0             0         0         4          0           4        0          0      0             0         10
 Total Volume        0      11       1       12       0                       0        0             0         0        15          0          15        0          0      0             0         27
 % App. Total        0    91.7     8.3                0                       0        0                       0       100          0                    0          0      0
          PHF    .000     .458    .250     .500    .000                    .000     .000         .000       .000      .750       .000        .750     .000       .000   .000        .000        .675
                                                                                  PRECISION
                                                                                  D A T A
N/S: Grove Street                                                                 INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                              File Name         : 91860 K
                                                                               P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Condo Drwy/Office Building South                                     Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                              Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                               Site Code         : 10865.00
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                        Start Date        : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/M. Santos                                                                                                                                          Page No           :1


                                                                        Groups Printed- Peds and Bicycles
                              Grove Street                       Condo Driveway                         Grove Street                                   Office Building South
                              From North                           From East                            From South                                          From West
       Start Time    Right    Thru      Left    Peds     Right     Thru     Left     Peds     Right     Thru      Left              Peds         Right      Thru       Left     Peds         Int. Total
      07:00 AM          0        2        0        1         0        0           0            1           0         2        0          0          0          0        0          6                12
      07:15 AM          0        0        0        0         0        0           0            0           0         1        0          0          0          0        0          8                 9
      07:30 AM          0        0        0        3         0        0           0            1           0         1        0          1          0          0        0          6                12
      07:45 AM          0        0        0        2         0        0           0            0           0         0        0          1          0          0        0         10                13
          Total         0        2        0        6         0        0           0            2           0         4        0          2          0          0        0         30                46

      08:00 AM          0        2        0        2         0        0           0          1             0         0        0         4           0          0        0         11              20
      08:15 AM          0        0        0        0         0        0           0         11             0         0        0         6           0          0        0         17              34
      08:30 AM          0        0        0        2         0        0           0          2             0         0        0         5           0          0        0         14              23
      08:45 AM          0        2        0        1         0        0           0          7             0         0        0         4           0          0        0         18              32
          Total         0        4        0        5         0        0           0         21             0         0        0        19           0          0        0         60             109

   Grand Total          0        6        0      11          0        0           0       23               0         4        0      21             0          0        0        90              155
     Apprch %           0     35.3        0     64.7         0        0           0      100               0       16         0      84             0          0        0       100
      Total %           0      3.9        0      7.1         0        0           0      14.8              0       2.6        0     13.5            0          0        0       58.1




                            Grove Street                       Condo Driveway                                      Grove Street                         Office Building South
                             From North                           From East                                         From South                               From West
   Start Time Right Thru        Left Peds App. Total Right   Thru    Left Peds        App. Total   Right       Thru    Left Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru     Left Peds      App. Total    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
  08:00 AM      0       2     0     2        4     0  0    0    1                           1         0    0            0      4         4         0       0      0   11             11           20
  08:15 AM      0       0     0     0        0     0  0    0   11                          11         0    0            0      6         6         0       0      0   17             17           34
  08:30 AM      0       0     0     2        2     0  0    0    2                           2         0    0            0      5         5         0       0      0   14             14           23
  08:45 AM      0       2     0     1        3     0  0    0    7                           7         0    0            0      4         4         0       0      0   18             18           32
 Total Volume   0       4     0     5        9     0  0    0   21                          21         0    0            0     19        19         0       0      0   60             60          109
 % App. Total   0 44.4        0 55.6               0  0    0 100                                      0    0            0    100                   0       0      0 100
        PHF .000 .500 .000 .625          .563 .000 .000 .000 .477                       .477       .000 .000         .000   .792     .792       .000    .000   .000 .833          .833          .801
                                                                                                  PRECISION
                                                                                                  D A T A
N/S: Grove Street                                                                                 INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                                  File Name        : 91860 K
                                                                                               P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Condo Drwy/Office Building South                                                     Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                              Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                                   Site Code        : 10865.00
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                                            Start Date       : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/M. Santos                                                                                                                                                              Page No          :1



                               Grove Street                                       Condo Driveway                               Grove Street                          Office Building South
                               From North                                           From East                                   From South                                From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total                   Right    Thru     Left App. Total         Right      Thru     Left   App. Total      Right     Thru       Left App. Total        Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
    08:00 AM         0      94        1      95       1                              0        3             4           0      151        0         151           3            0                0     3       253
     08:15 AM        0       90       2       92      0                              0        4             4           0      244        0         244           3            0                1     4       344
     08:30 AM        0      97        0      97       1                              0        1             2           0      199        0         199           3            0                0     3       301
     08:45 AM        0       91       0      91       2                              0        2             4           3      187        0         190           4            0                0     4       289
 Total Volume        0     372        3     375       4                              0       10            14           3      781        0         784          13            0                1    14      1187
  % App. Total       0    99.2      0.8            28.6                              0     71.4                       0.4     99.6        0                    92.9            0              7.1
           PHF    .000    .959    .375     .966    .500                           .000     .625          .875       .250      .800     .000        .803        .813         .000            .250    .875      .863
           Cars      0     365        3     368       4                              0       10            14           3      776        0         779          12            0                1     13     1174
       % Cars        0    98.1     100     98.1     100                              0      100           100        100      99.4        0        99.4        92.3            0             100    92.9      98.9
 Heavy Vehicles      0        7       0        7      0                              0        0             0           0         5       0            5          1            0                0      1        13
 % Heavy Vehicles    0      1.9       0      1.9      0                              0        0             0           0       0.6       0          0.6        7.7            0                0    7.1       1.1

                                                                                                       Grove Street
                                                                                               Out         In       Total
                                                                                                781         368     1149
                                                                                                   5          7        12
                                                                                                786         375     1161


                                                                                                      0  365           3
                                                                                                      0     7          0
                                                                                                      0  372           3
                                                                                                  Right Thru       Left




                                                                                          Peak Hour Data
                                                       13
                                                        1
                                                       14
                                                    Total




                                                                                                                                                                   Out
                                                                1
                                                                0
                                                                1
                                 Office Building South




                                                                                                                                                 Right Thru
                                                            Left




                                                                                                                                                                       Condo Driveway
                                                                                                                                                                   6
                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                   6




                                                                                                          North
                                                                                                                                                     4
                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                     4
                                              13
                                               1
                                              14




                                                                                         Peak Hour Begins at 08:00 AM
                                                                      0
                                                                      0
                                                                      0
                                                            Right Thru
                                            In




                                                                                                                                                                             In
                                                                                                                                                                               14

                                                                                                                                                                               14




                                                                                         Cars
                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                           0



                                                                                                                                                                                0




                                                                                         Heavy Vehicles
                                                               12
                                                                1
                                                               13




                                                                                                                                                 Left
                                     0
                                     0
                                     0
                                 Out




                                                                                                                                                                                    Total
                                                                                                                                                   10

                                                                                                                                                   10
                                                                                                                                                     0



                                                                                                                                                                                       20

                                                                                                                                                                                       20
                                                                                                                                                                                        0




                                                                                                  Left Thru Right
                                                                                                      0 776     3
                                                                                                      0    5    0
                                                                                                      0 781     3


                                                                                                387         779     1166
                                                                                                   8          5        13
                                                                                                395         784     1179
                                                                                               Out         In       Total
                                                                                                       Grove Street
                                                                                  PRECISION
                                                                                  D A T A
N/S: Grove Street                                                                 INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                               File Name         : 91860 KK
                                                                               P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Condo Drwy/Office Building South                                     Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                              Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                Site Code         : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                         Start Date        : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/M. Santos                                                                                                                                           Page No           :1


                                                                      Groups Printed- Cars - Heavy Vehicles
                              Grove Street                       Condo Driveway                         Grove Street                                   Office Building South
                              From North                           From East                            From South                                          From West
       Start Time    Right    Thru      Left    Peds     Right     Thru     Left     Peds      Right    Thru      Left              Peds         Right      Thru       Left      Peds         Int. Total
      04:00 PM          0      94         0        0         0        0           0            0           0        76        0          0        49            0        0           0            219
      04:15 PM          0      87         1        0         0        0           1            0           0        84        0          0        43            0        0           0            216
      04:30 PM          0      93         2        0         0        0           0            0           1       103        0          0        39            0        0           0            238
      04:45 PM          0      92         0        0         0        0           1            0           1        85        0          0        49            0        0           0            228
          Total         0     366         3        0         0        0           2            0           2       348        0          0       180            0        0           0            901

      05:00 PM          0     111         0        0         0        0           0            0           0       114        0          0        89            0        0           0           314
      05:15 PM          0     113         2        0         2        0           1            0           1       124        0          0        60            0        1           0           304
      05:30 PM          0     121         4        0         0        0           2            0           3       142        0          0        80            0        0           0           352
      05:45 PM          0      96         1        0         0        0           0            0           3       128        0          0        43            0        0           0           271
          Total         0     441         7        0         2        0           3            0           7       508        0          0       272            0        1           0          1241

   Grand Total          0     807       10         0        2         0         5              0         9        856         0          0      452             0        1           0          2142
     Apprch %           0     98.8     1.2         0     28.6         0      71.4              0         1         99         0          0      99.8            0      0.2           0
      Total %           0     37.7     0.5         0      0.1         0       0.2              0       0.4         40         0          0      21.1            0        0           0
         Cars           0     798       10         0        2         0         5              0         9        837         0          0      451             0        1           0          2113
       % Cars           0     98.9     100         0     100          0      100               0      100         97.8        0          0      99.8            0     100            0           98.6
 Heavy Vehicles         0        9       0         0        0         0         0              0         0          19        0          0         1            0        0           0             29
 % Heavy Vehicles       0       1.1       0         0        0        0           0            0           0        2.2       0           0        0.2          0        0           0               1.4




                            Grove Street                       Condo Driveway                                      Grove Street                          Office Building South
                             From North                           From East                                         From South                                From West
   Start Time Right Thru        Left Peds App. Total Right   Thru    Left Peds        App. Total   Right       Thru    Left Peds   App. Total   Right    Thru     Left Peds      App. Total    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
  05:00 PM        0 111       0     0     111      0  0    0    0                            0         0 114    0    0                114         89        0       0   0             89          314
  05:15 PM        0 113       2     0     115      2  0    1    0                            3         1 124    0    0                125         60        0       1
  05:30 PM        0 121       4     0     125      0  0    2    0                            2         3 142    0    0                145         80        0       0   0            80          352
  05:45 PM        0    96     1     0       97     0  0    0    0                            0         3 128    0    0                131         43        0       0   0            43          271
 Total Volume     0 441       7     0     448      2  0    3    0                            5         7 508    0    0                515        272        0       1   0           273         1241
 % App. Total     0 98.4    1.6     0             40  0   60    0                                    1.4 98.6   0    0                          99.6        0     0.4   0
         PHF .000 .911 .438 .000         .896 .250 .000 .375 .000                       .417       .583 .894 .000 .000               .888       .764     .000   .250 .000          .767          .881
         Cars     0 437       7     0     444      2  0    3    0                          5           7 501    0    0                508        271        0       1   0           272         1229
     % Cars       0 99.1 100        0    99.1 100     0 100     0                        100        100 98.6    0    0               98.6       99.6        0    100    0          99.6          99.0
 Heavy Vehicles   0     4     0     0        4     0  0    0    0                          0           0    7   0    0                   7         1        0       0   0              1           12
 % Heavy Vehicles 0   0.9     0     0      0.9     0  0    0    0                          0           0  1.4   0    0                 1.4       0.4        0       0   0            0.4          1.0
                                                                                 PRECISION
                                                                                 D A T A
N/S: Grove Street                                                                INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                               File Name         : 91860 KK
                                                                              P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Condo Drwy/Office Building South                                    Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                             Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                               Site Code         : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                        Start Date        : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/M. Santos                                                                                                                                          Page No           :1


                                                                             Groups Printed- Cars
                              Grove Street                       Condo Driveway                                   Grove Street                         Office Building South
                              From North                           From East                                      From South                                From West
       Start Time    Right    Thru      Left    Peds     Right     Thru     Left   Peds      Right                Thru      Left    Peds         Right      Thru       Left     Peds         Int. Total
      04:00 PM          0      92         0        0         0       0           0            0           0        70         0          0        49           0        0           0            211
      04:15 PM          0      87         1        0         0       0           1            0           0        83         0          0        43           0        0           0            215
      04:30 PM          0      92         2        0         0       0           0            0           1       101         0          0        39           0        0           0            235
      04:45 PM          0      90         0        0         0       0           1            0           1        82         0          0        49           0        0           0            223
          Total         0     361         3        0         0       0           2            0           2       336         0          0       180           0        0           0            884

      05:00 PM          0     109         0        0         0       0           0            0           0       111         0          0        89           0        0           0           309
      05:15 PM          0     112         2        0         2       0           1            0           1       122         0          0        60           0        1           0           301
      05:30 PM          0     120         4        0         0       0           2            0           3       142         0          0        79           0        0           0           350
      05:45 PM          0      96         1        0         0       0           0            0           3       126         0          0        43           0        0           0           269
          Total         0     437         7        0         2       0           3            0           7       501         0          0       271           0        1           0          1229

   Grand Total          0     798        10        0        2        0         5              0         9        837          0          0      451            0        1           0          2113
     Apprch %           0     98.8      1.2        0     28.6        0      71.4              0       1.1        98.9         0          0      99.8           0      0.2           0
      Total %           0     37.8      0.5        0      0.1        0       0.2              0       0.4        39.6         0          0      21.3           0        0           0




                            Grove Street                       Condo Driveway                                     Grove Street                          Office Building South
                             From North                           From East                                        From South                                From West
   Start Time Right Thru        Left Peds App. Total Right   Thru    Left Peds       App. Total   Right       Thru    Left Peds    App. Total   Right   Thru     Left Peds      App. Total    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
  05:00 PM      0 109         0     0     109      0  0    0    0                           0   0 111    0    0                       111         89       0      0    0             89          309
  05:15 PM      0 112         2     0     114      2  0    1    0                           3   1 122    0    0                       123         60       0      1
  05:30 PM      0 120         4     0     124      0  0    2    0                           2   3 142    0    0                       145         79       0      0    0            79          350
  05:45 PM      0     96      1     0      97      0  0    0    0                           0   3 126    0    0                       129         43       0      0    0            43          269
 Total Volume   0 437         7     0     444      2  0    3    0                           5   7 501    0    0                       508        271       0      1    0           272         1229
 % App. Total   0 98.4      1.6     0             40  0   60    0                             1.4 98.6   0    0                                 99.6       0    0.4    0
        PHF .000 .910 .438 .000          .895 .250 .000 .375 .000                      .417 .583 .882 .000 .000                      .876       .761    .000   .250 .000          .764          .878
                                                                                  PRECISION
                                                                                  D A T A
N/S: Grove Street                                                                 INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                              File Name         : 91860 KK
                                                                               P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Condo Drwy/Office Building South                                     Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                              Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                               Site Code         : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                        Start Date        : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/M. Santos                                                                                                                                          Page No           :1


                                                                        Groups Printed- Heavy Vehicles
                              Grove Street                       Condo Driveway                        Grove Street                                    Office Building South
                              From North                           From East                           From South                                           From West
       Start Time    Right    Thru      Left    Peds     Right     Thru     Left    Peds    Right      Thru      Left               Peds         Right      Thru       Left     Peds         Int. Total
      04:00 PM          0        2        0        0         0        0           0            0           0         6        0          0          0          0        0           0                8
      04:15 PM          0        0        0        0         0        0           0            0           0         1        0          0          0          0        0           0                1
      04:30 PM          0        1        0        0         0        0           0            0           0         2        0          0          0          0        0           0                3
      04:45 PM          0        2        0        0         0        0           0            0           0         3        0          0          0          0        0           0                5
          Total         0        5        0        0         0        0           0            0           0        12        0          0          0          0        0           0               17

      05:00 PM          0        2        0        0         0        0           0            0           0         3        0          0          0          0        0           0                5
      05:15 PM          0        1        0        0         0        0           0            0           0         2        0          0          0          0        0           0                3
      05:30 PM          0        1        0        0         0        0           0            0           0         0        0          0          1          0        0           0                2
      05:45 PM          0        0        0        0         0        0           0            0           0         2        0          0          0          0        0           0                2
          Total         0        4        0        0         0        0           0            0           0         7        0          0          1          0        0           0               12

   Grand Total          0       9         0        0         0        0           0            0           0       19         0          0          1          0        0           0               29
     Apprch %           0     100         0        0         0        0           0            0           0      100         0          0       100           0        0           0
      Total %           0      31         0        0         0        0           0            0           0      65.5        0          0        3.4          0        0           0




                            Grove Street                       Condo Driveway                                      Grove Street                         Office Building South
                             From North                           From East                                         From South                               From West
   Start Time Right Thru        Left Peds App. Total Right   Thru    Left Peds        App. Total   Right       Thru    Left Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru     Left Peds      App. Total    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:00 PM
  04:00 PM      0       2     0     0        2     0  0    0    0                            0        0    6            0      0         6         0       0      0    0                0           8
  04:15 PM      0       0     0     0        0     0  0    0    0                            0        0    1            0      0         1         0       0      0    0                0           1
  04:30 PM      0       1     0     0        1     0  0    0    0                            0        0    2            0      0         2         0       0      0    0                0           3
  04:45 PM      0       2     0     0        2     0  0    0    0                            0        0    3            0      0         3         0       0      0    0                0           5
 Total Volume   0       5     0     0        5     0  0    0    0                            0        0   12            0      0        12         0       0      0    0                0          17
 % App. Total   0 100         0     0              0  0    0    0                                     0 100             0      0                   0       0      0    0
        PHF .000 .625 .000 .000          .625 .000 .000 .000 .000                       .000       .000 .500         .000   .000     .500       .000    .000   .000 .000          .000          .531
                                                                                  PRECISION
                                                                                  D A T A
N/S: Grove Street                                                                 INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                               File Name         : 91860 KK
                                                                               P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Condo Drwy/Office Building South                                     Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                              Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                Site Code         : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                         Start Date        : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/M. Santos                                                                                                                                           Page No           :1


                                                                        Groups Printed- Peds and Bicycles
                              Grove Street                       Condo Driveway                         Grove Street                                    Office Building South
                              From North                           From East                            From South                                           From West
       Start Time    Right    Thru      Left    Peds     Right     Thru     Left     Peds     Right     Thru      Left               Peds         Right      Thru       Left     Peds         Int. Total
      04:00 PM          0        0        0        0         0        0           0            0           0         0         0          0          0          0        0          2                 2
      04:15 PM          0        0        0        0         0        0           0            1           0         0         0          1          0          0        0          8                10
      04:30 PM          0        1        0        0         0        0           0            0           0         0         0          1          0          0        0          1                 3
      04:45 PM          0        1        0        1         0        0           0            3           0         0         0          2          0          0        0          8                15
          Total         0        2        0        1         0        0           0            4           0         0         0          4          0          0        0         19                30

      05:00 PM          0        1        0        0         0        0           0            1           0         1         0          2          0          0        0         17                22
      05:15 PM          0        0        0        0         0        0           0            2           0         1         0          2          1          0        0         18                24
      05:30 PM          0        0        0        0         0        0           0            4           0         1         0          5          0          0        0         11                21
      05:45 PM          0        0        0        0         0        0           0            2           0         0         0          0          0          0        0          8                10
          Total         0        1        0        0         0        0           0            9           0         3         0          9          1          0        0         54                77

   Grand Total          0        3        0        1         0        0           0       13               0         3         0      13             1          0        0        73              107
     Apprch %           0      75         0      25          0        0           0      100               0      18.8         0     81.2          1.4          0        0       98.6
      Total %           0      2.8        0      0.9         0        0           0      12.1              0       2.8         0     12.1          0.9          0        0       68.2




                            Grove Street                       Condo Driveway                                      Grove Street                          Office Building South
                             From North                           From East                                         From South                                From West
   Start Time Right Thru        Left Peds App. Total Right   Thru    Left Peds        App. Total   Right       Thru    Left Peds    App. Total   Right   Thru     Left Peds      App. Total    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:45 PM
  04:45 PM      0       1     0     1        2     0  0    0    3                           3         0    0             0     2           2        0       0       0        8          8           15
  05:00 PM      0       1     0     0        1     0  0    0    1                           1         0    1
  05:15 PM      0       0     0     0        0     0  0    0    2                           2         0    1            0       2         3         1       0      0   18             19            24
  05:30 PM      0       0     0     0        0     0  0    0    4                           4         0    1            0       5         6         0       0      0   11             11            21
 Total Volume   0       2     0     1        3     0  0    0   10                          10         0    3            0      11        14         1       0      0   54             55            82
 % App. Total   0 66.7        0 33.3               0  0    0 100                                      0 21.4            0    78.6                 1.8       0      0 98.2
        PHF .000 .500 .000 .250          .375 .000 .000 .000 .625                       .625       .000 .750         .000    .550     .583       .250    .000   .000 .750          .724          .854
                                                                                                  PRECISION
                                                                                                  D A T A
N/S: Grove Street                                                                                 INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                                    File Name      : 91860 KK
                                                                                             P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Condo Drwy/Office Building South                                                   Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                            Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                                     Site Code      : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                                              Start Date     : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/M. Santos                                                                                                                                                                Page No        :1



                            Grove Street                                        Condo Driveway                                 Grove Street                               Office Building South
                             From North                                            From East                                    From South                                     From West
   Start Time Right Thru        Left Peds App. Total Right                    Thru    Left Peds      App. Total    Right   Thru    Left Peds   App. Total    Right        Thru     Left Peds       App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
  05:00 PM        0 111       0     0     111      0  0    0    0                                           0          0 114    0    0            114         89            0              0   0        89         314
  05:15 PM        0 113       2     0     115      2  0    1    0                                           3          1 124    0    0            125         60            0              1
  05:30 PM        0 121       4     0     125      0  0    2    0                                           2          3 142    0    0            145         80            0              0   0       80         352
  05:45 PM        0    96     1     0       97     0  0    0    0                                           0          3 128    0    0            131         43            0              0   0       43         271
 Total Volume     0 441       7     0     448      2  0    3    0                                           5          7 508    0    0            515        272            0              1   0      273        1241
 % App. Total     0 98.4    1.6     0             40  0   60    0                                                    1.4 98.6   0    0                      99.6            0            0.4   0
         PHF .000 .911 .438 .000         .896 .250 .000 .375 .000                                      .417        .583 .894 .000 .000           .888       .764         .000          .250 .000     .767         .881
         Cars     0 437       7     0     444      2  0    3    0                                         5            7 501    0    0            508        271            0              1   0      272        1229
     % Cars       0 99.1 100        0    99.1 100     0 100     0                                       100         100 98.6    0    0           98.6       99.6            0           100    0     99.6         99.0
 Heavy Vehicles   0     4     0     0        4     0  0    0    0                                         0            0    7   0    0               7         1            0              0   0         1          12
 % Heavy Vehicles 0   0.9     0     0      0.9     0  0    0    0                                         0            0  1.4   0    0             1.4       0.4            0              0   0       0.4         1.0

                                                                                                     Grove Street
                                                                                             Out         In       Total
                                                                                              504         444      948
                                                                                                 7          4        11
                                                                                              511         448      959


                                                                                               0  437                 7   0
                                                                                               0     4                0   0
                                                                                               0  441                 7   0
                                                                                           Right Thru             Left Peds




                                                                                         Peak Hour Data
                                                     272
                                                       1
                                                     273


                                                               1
                                                               0
                                                               1




                                                                                                                                               Right Thru
                                                  Total




                                                           Left




                                                                                                                                                                     Out
                               Office Building South




                                                                                                                                                   2
                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                   2


                                                                                                                                                                       14

                                                                                                                                                                       14

                                                                                                                                                                         Condo Driveway
                                                                                                                                                                         0




                                                                                                         North
                                                                          0
                                                                          0
                                                                          0
                                                           Peds Right Thru
                                           272
                                             1
                                           273




                                                                                       Peak Hour Begins at 05:00 PM
                                          In




                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                         0




                                                                                                                                                                               In
                                                                  271
                                                                    1
                                                                  272




                                                                                       Cars
                                                                                                                                               Left Peds




                                                                                                                                                                                  5
                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                  5




                                                                                       Heavy Vehicles
                                                                                                                                                   3
                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                   3
                                   0
                                   0
                                   0
                               Out




                                                                                                                                                                                      Total
                                                              0
                                                              0
                                                              0




                                                                                                                                                                                         19

                                                                                                                                                                                         19
                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                       0




                                                                                            Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                                0 501     7    0
                                                                                                0    7    0    0
                                                                                                0 508     7    0


                                                                                              711         508     1219
                                                                                                 5          7        12
                                                                                              716         515     1231
                                                                                             Out         In       Total
                                                                                                     Grove Street
                                                                                      PRECISION
                                                                                      D A T A
N/S: Grove Street                                                                     INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                           File Name        : 91860 L
                                                                                  P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Condo Drwy/Office Drive Center                                          Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                 Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                Site Code        : 10865.00
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                         Start Date       : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/M. Santos                                                                                                                                           Page No          :1


                                                                           Groups Printed- Cars - Heavy Vehicles
                                    Grove Street                        Condo Driveway                          Grove Street                             Office Drive Center
                                    From North                              From East                            From South                                  From West
          Start Time     Right      Thru        Left   U-Turn        Right      Thru        Left     Right       Thru       Left         U-Turn        Right       Thru      Left         Int. Total
        07:00 AM            0        74           0          0          2           0            0           0         101       40             0           0          0          0          217
        07:15 AM            2        78           0          0          2           0            0           0         164       40             0           0          0          0          286
        07:30 AM            3        85           0          0          4           0            1           0         105       38             0           0          0          0          236
        07:45 AM            7        92           1          0          3           0            1           1         135       49             1           0          0          0          290
            Total          12       329           1          0         11           0            2           1         505      167             1           0          0          0         1029

        08:00 AM            4        95           0          0          2           0           4            0         107       47             0           0          0          0          259
        08:15 AM            2        93           1          0          9           0           2            0         162       76             0           0          0          0          345
        08:30 AM            3        87           1          1          3           0           3            1         135       68             0           0          0          0          302
        08:45 AM            8        84           1          0          2           0           1            0         111       78             0           0          0          0          285
            Total          17       359           3          1         16           0          10            1         515      269             0           0          0          0         1191

    Grand Total            29      688           4          1         27            0        12              2        1020       436          1             0          0          0         2220
      Apprch %               4     95.3        0.6        0.1        69.2           0       30.8           0.1         69.9     29.9        0.1             0          0          0
        Total %            1.3      31         0.2          0         1.2           0        0.5           0.1         45.9     19.6          0             0          0          0
          Cars             29      667           4          1         27            0        12              2        1002       434          1             0          0          0         2179
        % Cars            100      96.9        100       100         100            0       100           100          98.2     99.5        100             0          0          0          98.2
 Heavy Vehicles              0       21          0          0           0           0          0             0           18         2         0             0          0          0           41
 % Heavy Vehicles            0      3.1          0          0           0           0          0             0          1.8       0.5         0             0          0          0           1.8




                                Grove Street                         Condo Driveway                                   Grove Street                         Office Drive Center
                                From North                             From East                                      From South                               From West
     Start Time Right      Thru     Left U-Turn App. Total   Right    Thru     Left     App. Total   Right       Thru     Left U-Turn   App. Total   Right    Thru      Left App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
  07:45 AM           7    92      1     0      100     3                 0        1            4         1      135       49       1        186         0          0      0           0      290
   08:00 AM          4   95       0     0        99    2                 0        4            6         0      107       47       0        154         0          0      0           0      259
   08:15 AM          2    93      1     0        96    9                 0        2           11         0      162       76                238         0          0      0           0      345
   08:30 AM          3    87      1     1        92    3                 0        3            6         1      135       68        0       204         0          0      0           0      302
 Total Volume       16  367       3     1      387    17                 0       10           27         2      539      240        1       782         0          0      0           0     1196
 % App. Total      4.1 94.8     0.8   0.3             63                 0       37                    0.3     68.9     30.7      0.1                   0          0      0
          PHF .571 .966 .750 .250             .968 .472               .000     .625        .614      .500      .832     .789    .250       .821      .000       .000   .000      .000        .867
          Cars      16  356       3     1      376    17                 0       10          27          2      531      239        1       773         0          0      0         0       1176
      % Cars      100 97.0     100   100      97.2   100                 0      100         100       100      98.5     99.6     100       98.8         0          0      0         0        98.3
 Heavy Vehicles      0    11      0     0        11    0                 0        0           0          0         8        1       0          9        0          0      0         0          20
 % Heavy Vehicles    0   3.0      0     0       2.8    0                 0        0           0          0       1.5      0.4       0        1.2        0          0      0         0         1.7
                                                                                        PRECISION
                                                                                        D A T A
N/S: Grove Street                                                                       INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                             File Name        : 91860 L
                                                                                    P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Condo Drwy/Office Drive Center                                            Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                   Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                    Site Code        : 10865.00
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                             Start Date       : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/M. Santos                                                                                                                                               Page No          :1


                                                                                   Groups Printed- Cars
                                    Grove Street                          Condo Driveway                                 Grove Street                        Office Drive Center
                                    From North                               From East                                   From South                              From West
          Start Time     Right      Thru        Left   U-Turn          Right     Thru      Left     Right                Thru        Left    U-Turn        Right       Thru      Left         Int. Total
        07:00 AM            0        69           0           0          2            0            0           0          97         39             0           0          0          0          207
        07:15 AM            2        77           0           0          2            0            0           0         163         40             0           0          0          0          284
        07:30 AM            3        83           0           0          4            0            1           0         102         38             0           0          0          0          231
        07:45 AM            7        86           1           0          3            0            1           1         131         48             1           0          0          0          279
            Total          12       315           1           0         11            0            2           1         493        165             1           0          0          0         1001

        08:00 AM            4        93           0           0          2            0           4            0         105         47             0           0          0          0          255
        08:15 AM            2        91           1           0          9            0           2            0         160         76             0           0          0          0          341
        08:30 AM            3        86           1           1          3            0           3            1         135         68             0           0          0          0          301
        08:45 AM            8        82           1           0          2            0           1            0         109         78             0           0          0          0          281
            Total          17       352           3           1         16            0          10            1         509        269             0           0          0          0         1178

      Grand Total         29       667            4            1        27            0        12              2        1002        434            1            0          0          0         2179
        Apprch %          4.1      95.1         0.6          0.1       69.2           0       30.8           0.1         69.6      30.2          0.1            0          0          0
         Total %          1.3      30.6         0.2            0        1.2           0        0.6           0.1           46      19.9            0            0          0          0




                                Grove Street                           Condo Driveway                                   Grove Street                           Office Drive Center
                                From North                               From East                                      From South                                 From West
     Start Time Right      Thru     Left U-Turn App. Total     Right    Thru     Left     App. Total   Right       Thru     Left U-Turn     App. Total   Right    Thru      Left App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
  08:00 AM        4      93       0     0       97     2                   0        4            6         0       105       47        0        152         0         0        0          0       255
   08:15 AM       2      91       1     0       94     9                   0        2           11         0       160       76        0        236         0         0        0          0       341
   08:30 AM       3      86       1     1       91     3                   0        3            6         1
   08:45 AM       8      82       1     0       91     2                   0        1            3         0      109        78       0         187         0          0      0           0      281
 Total Volume    17     352       3     1      373    16                   0       10           26         1      509       269       0         779         0          0      0           0     1178
 % App. Total   4.6 94.4        0.8   0.3           61.5                   0     38.5                    0.1     65.3      34.5       0                     0          0      0
         PHF .531 .946 .750 .250              .961 .444                 .000     .625        .591      .250      .795      .862    .000        .825      .000       .000   .000      .000        .864
                                                                                      PRECISION
                                                                                      D A T A
N/S: Grove Street                                                                     INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                            File Name        : 91860 L
                                                                                  P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Condo Drwy/Office Drive Center                                          Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                 Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                 Site Code        : 10865.00
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                          Start Date       : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/M. Santos                                                                                                                                            Page No          :1


                                                                             Groups Printed- Heavy Vehicles
                                    Grove Street                        Condo Driveway                                Grove Street                        Office Drive Center
                                    From North                             From East                                  From South                              From West
          Start Time     Right      Thru        Left   U-Turn        Right     Thru       Left     Right              Thru        Left    U-Turn        Right       Thru      Left         Int. Total
        07:00 AM             0         5          0          0          0           0            0           0           4          1            0           0          0          0             10
        07:15 AM             0         1          0          0          0           0            0           0           1          0            0           0          0          0              2
        07:30 AM             0         2          0          0          0           0            0           0           3          0            0           0          0          0              5
        07:45 AM             0         6          0          0          0           0            0           0           4          1            0           0          0          0             11
            Total            0        14          0          0          0           0            0           0          12          2            0           0          0          0             28

        08:00 AM             0         2          0          0          0           0            0           0           2          0            0           0          0          0              4
        08:15 AM             0         2          0          0          0           0            0           0           2          0            0           0          0          0              4
        08:30 AM             0         1          0          0          0           0            0           0           0          0            0           0          0          0              1
        08:45 AM             0         2          0          0          0           0            0           0           2          0            0           0          0          0              4
            Total            0         7          0          0          0           0            0           0           6          0            0           0          0          0             13

      Grand Total            0      21            0          0          0           0            0           0          18          2            0           0          0          0             41
        Apprch %             0     100            0          0          0           0            0           0          90         10            0           0          0          0
         Total %             0     51.2           0          0          0           0            0           0        43.9        4.9            0           0          0          0




                                Grove Street                         Condo Driveway                                   Grove Street                          Office Drive Center
                                From North                             From East                                      From South                                From West
     Start Time Right      Thru     Left U-Turn App. Total   Right    Thru     Left     App. Total   Right       Thru     Left U-Turn    App. Total   Right    Thru      Left App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:00 AM
  07:00 AM        0       5      0      0        5    0                  0        0            0        0         4        1       0            5        0          0      0           0         10
   07:15 AM       0       1      0      0        1    0                  0        0            0        0         1        0       0            1        0          0      0           0          2
   07:30 AM       0       2      0      0        2    0                  0        0            0        0         3        0       0            3        0          0      0           0          5
   07:45 AM       0       6      0      0        6    0                  0        0            0        0         4        1       0            5        0          0      0           0         11
 Total Volume     0      14      0      0       14    0                  0        0            0        0        12        2       0           14        0          0      0           0         28
 % App. Total     0     100      0      0             0                  0        0                     0      85.7     14.3       0                     0          0      0
         PHF .000 .583 .000 .000              .583 .000               .000     .000        .000      .000      .750     .500    .000        .700      .000       .000   .000      .000        .636
                                                                                  PRECISION
                                                                                  D A T A
N/S: Grove Street                                                                 INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                              File Name        : 91860 L
                                                                               P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Condo Drwy/Office Drive Center                                       Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                              Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                               Site Code        : 10865.00
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                        Start Date       : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/M. Santos                                                                                                                                          Page No          :1


                                                                        Groups Printed- Peds and Bicycles
                              Grove Street                       Condo Driveway                         Grove Street                                   Office Drive Center
                              From North                           From East                            From South                                         From West
       Start Time    Right    Thru      Left    Peds     Right     Thru     Left     Peds     Right     Thru      Left              Peds         Right     Thru      Left      Peds         Int. Total
      07:00 AM          0        1        0        3         0        0           0            2           0         2        0          0          0          0        0         6                14
      07:15 AM          0        0        0        0         0        0           0            0           0         0        0          0          0          0        0         0                 0
      07:30 AM          0        0        0        1         0        0           0            2           0         1        0          0          0          0        0         3                 7
      07:45 AM          0        0        0        2         0        0           0            1           0         0        0          0          0          0        0         8                11
          Total         0        1        0        6         0        0           0            5           0         3        0          0          0          0        0        17                32

      08:00 AM          0        2        0        2         0        0           0          5             0         0        0          0          0          0        0         3                12
      08:15 AM          0        1        0        1         0        0           0          3             0         0        0          0          0          0        0         8                13
      08:30 AM          0        0        0        0         0        0           0          2             0         0        0          1          0          0        0         8                11
      08:45 AM          0        0        0        0         0        0           0          4             0         0        0          0          0          0        0         3                 7
          Total         0        3        0        3         0        0           0         14             0         0        0          1          0          0        0        22                43

   Grand Total          0        4        0        9         0        0           0       19               0         3        0         1           0          0        0       39                 75
     Apprch %           0     30.8        0     69.2         0        0           0      100               0        75        0       25            0          0        0      100
      Total %           0      5.3        0      12          0        0           0      25.3              0         4        0       1.3           0          0        0       52




                            Grove Street                       Condo Driveway                                      Grove Street                          Office Drive Center
                             From North                           From East                                         From South                               From West
   Start Time Right Thru        Left Peds App. Total Right   Thru    Left Peds        App. Total   Right       Thru    Left Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru     Left Peds     App. Total    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
  07:45 AM      0       0     0     2        2     0  0    0    1                           1         0    0            0      0          0        0       0      0    8             8            11
  08:00 AM      0       2     0     2        4     0  0    0    5                           5         0    0            0      0          0        0       0      0    3             3            12
  08:15 AM      0       1     0     1        2     0  0    0    3                           3         0    0            0      0          0        0       0      0    8             8            13
  08:30 AM      0       0     0     0        0     0  0    0    2                           2         0    0            0      1          1        0       0      0    8             8            11
 Total Volume   0       3     0     5        8     0  0    0   11                          11         0    0            0      1          1        0       0      0   27            27            47
 % App. Total   0 37.5        0 62.5               0  0    0 100                                      0    0            0    100                   0       0      0 100
        PHF .000 .375 .000 .625          .500 .000 .000 .000 .550                       .550       .000 .000         .000   .250     .250       .000    .000   .000 .844         .844          .904
                                                                                                 PRECISION
                                                                                                 D A T A
N/S: Grove Street                                                                                INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                                 File Name       : 91860 L
                                                                                             P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Condo Drwy/Office Drive Center                                                     Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                            Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                                 Site Code       : 10865.00
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                                          Start Date      : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/M. Santos                                                                                                                                                            Page No         :1



                                Grove Street                                     Condo Driveway                                  Grove Street                          Office Drive Center
                                From North                                         From East                                     From South                                From West
     Start Time Right      Thru     Left U-Turn App. Total               Right    Thru     Left      App. Total     Right   Thru     Left U-Turn    App. Total   Right    Thru      Left App. Total     Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
  07:45 AM           7    92      1     0      100     3                            0        1              4           1    135      49       1        186         0             0          0     0       290
   08:00 AM          4   95       0     0        99    2                            0        4              6           0    107      47       0        154         0             0          0     0       259
   08:15 AM          2    93      1     0        96    9                            0        2             11           0    162      76                238         0             0          0     0       345
   08:30 AM          3    87      1     1        92    3                            0        3              6           1    135      68        0       204         0             0          0     0       302
 Total Volume       16  367       3     1      387    17                            0       10             27           2    539     240        1       782         0             0          0     0      1196
 % App. Total      4.1 94.8     0.8   0.3             63                            0       37                        0.3   68.9    30.7      0.1                   0             0          0
          PHF .571 .966 .750 .250             .968 .472                          .000     .625          .614        .500    .832    .789    .250       .821      .000          .000       .000   .000      .867
          Cars      16  356       3     1      376    17                            0       10            27            2    531     239        1       773         0             0          0      0     1176
      % Cars      100 97.0     100   100      97.2   100                            0      100           100         100    98.5    99.6     100       98.8         0             0          0      0      98.3
 Heavy Vehicles      0    11      0     0        11    0                            0        0             0            0       8       1       0          9        0             0          0      0        20
 % Heavy Vehicles    0   3.0      0     0       2.8    0                            0        0             0            0     1.5     0.4       0        1.2        0             0          0      0       1.7

                                                                                                     Grove Street
                                                                                             Out         In       Total
                                                                                              548         376      924
                                                                                                 8         11        19
                                                                                              556         387      943


                                                                                              16  356                 3    1
                                                                                               0   11                 0    0
                                                                                              16  367                 3    1
                                                                                           Right Thru             Left U-Turn




                                                                                         Peak Hour Data
                                                     255
                                                       1
                                                     256
                                                   Total




                                                                                                                                                                 Out
                                                               0
                                                               0
                                                               0




                                                                                                                                                Right Thru
                                 Office Drive Center




                                                           Left




                                                                                                                                                                     Condo Driveway
                                                                                                                                                                 5
                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                 5




                                                                                                         North
                                                                                                                                                   17

                                                                                                                                                   17
                                                                                                                                                    0
                                              0
                                              0
                                              0




                                                                                        Peak Hour Begins at 07:45 AM
                                                                     0
                                                                     0
                                                                     0
                                                           Right Thru
                                           In




                                                                                                                                                                           In
                                                                                                                                                                             27

                                                                                                                                                                             27




                                                                                        Cars
                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                          0



                                                                                                                                                                              0




                                                                                        Heavy Vehicles
                                                               0
                                                               0
                                                               0




                                                                                                                                                Left
                                 255
                                    1
                                 256
                                Out




                                                                                                                                                                                  Total
                                                                                                                                                  10

                                                                                                                                                  10
                                                                                                                                                    0



                                                                                                                                                                                     32

                                                                                                                                                                                     32
                                                                                                                                                                                      0




                                                                                            Left Thru Right U-Turn
                                                                                             239  531     2     1
                                                                                                1    8    0     0
                                                                                             240  539     2     1


                                                                                              366         773     1139
                                                                                               11           9        20
                                                                                              377         782     1159
                                                                                             Out         In       Total
                                                                                                     Grove Street
                                                                                             PRECISION
                                                                                             D A T A
N/S: Grove Street                                                                            INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                        File Name       : 91860 LL
                                                                                        P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Condo Drwy/Office Drive Center                                                Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                       Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                    Site Code       : 10865.00
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                             Start Date      : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/M. Santos                                                                                                                                               Page No         :1


                                                                                Groups Printed- Cars - Heavy Vehicles
                                    Grove Street                             Condo Driveway                       Grove Street                             Office Drive Center
                                    From North                                 From East                           From South                                  From West
             Start Time       Right       Thru          Left             Right      Thru         Left       Right       Thru                  Left      Right         Thru       Left       Int. Total
           04:00 PM              0          94               6              4            0             1              0          74             4             0          0          0           183
           04:15 PM              3          88               0              2            0             0              0          86             0             0          0          0           179
           04:30 PM              3          97               0              0            0             2              1          99             2             0          0          0           204
           04:45 PM              1          94               3              0            0             0              1          78             6             0          0          0           183
               Total             7         373               9              6            0             3              2         337            12             0          0          0           749

           05:00 PM              0         117           3                  0            0             2              0         109             3             0          0          0           234
           05:15 PM              3         119           3                  1            0             1              3         119             5             0          0          0           254
           05:30 PM              4         123           1                  1            0             0              1         139             3             0          0          0           272
           05:45 PM              0          92           3                  2            0             1              2         119             4             0          0          0           223
               Total             7         451          10                  4            0             4              6         486            15             0          0          0           983

      Grand Total              14         824            19               10             0            7              8          823           27              0          0          0          1732
        Apprch %               1.6        96.1          2.2              58.8            0         41.2            0.9          95.9         3.1              0          0          0
          Total %              0.8        47.6          1.1               0.6            0          0.4            0.5          47.5         1.6              0          0          0
            Cars               13         817            19               10             0            7              8          804           27              0          0          0          1705
          % Cars              92.9        99.2         100               100             0         100            100           97.7         100              0          0          0           98.4
   Heavy Vehicles                1           7            0                 0            0            0              0            19           0              0          0          0            27
 % Heavy Vehicles              7.1         0.8            0                 0            0            0              0           2.3           0              0          0          0            1.6




                               Grove Street                               Condo Driveway                                  Grove Street                       Office Drive Center
                               From North                                   From East                                      From South                            From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total          Right     Thru     Left App. Total          Right        Thru     Left   App. Total   Right    Thru      Left App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
    05:00 PM          0    117        3     120       0                       0        2              2          0      109          3         112        0          0      0           0       234
     05:15 PM         3    119        3     125       1                       0        1              2          3      119          5         127        0          0      0           0       254
     05:30 PM         4    123        1     128       1                       0        0              1          1      139          3         143        0          0      0           0       272
     05:45 PM         0      92       3      95       2                       0        1              3          2      119          4         125        0          0      0           0       223
 Total Volume         7    451       10     468       4                       0        4              8          6      486         15         507        0          0      0           0       983
  % App. Total      1.5   96.4      2.1              50                       0       50                       1.2     95.9          3                    0          0      0
           PHF    .438    .917    .833     .914    .500                    .000     .500          .667       .500      .874       .750        .886     .000       .000   .000       .000       .903
           Cars       7    448      10      465       4                       0        4             8           6      479         15         500        0          0      0          0        973
       % Cars      100    99.3     100     99.4     100                       0      100           100        100      98.6        100        98.6        0          0      0          0       99.0
 Heavy Vehicles       0       3       0        3      0                       0        0             0           0         7         0            7       0          0      0          0         10
 % Heavy Vehicles     0     0.7       0      0.6      0                       0        0             0           0       1.4         0          1.4       0          0      0          0        1.0
                                                                                            PRECISION
                                                                                            D A T A
N/S: Grove Street                                                                           INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                         File Name       : 91860 LL
                                                                                       P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Condo Drwy/Office Drive Center                                               Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                      Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                    Site Code       : 10865.00
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                             Start Date      : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/M. Santos                                                                                                                                               Page No         :1


                                                                                        Groups Printed- Cars
                                    Grove Street                             Condo Driveway                      Grove Street                              Office Drive Center
                                    From North                                 From East                         From South                                    From West
             Start Time       Right       Thru          Left             Right      Thru        Left       Right       Thru                   Left      Right         Thru       Left       Int. Total
           04:00 PM              0          92               6              4           0             1              0           69             4             0          0          0           176
           04:15 PM              3          88               0              2           0             0              0           85             0             0          0          0           178
           04:30 PM              2          96               0              0           0             2              1           97             2             0          0          0           200
           04:45 PM              1          93               3              0           0             0              1           74             6             0          0          0           178
               Total             6         369               9              6           0             3              2          325            12             0          0          0           732

           05:00 PM              0         116           3                  0           0             2              0          107             3             0          0          0           231
           05:15 PM              3         119           3                  1           0             1              3          118             5             0          0          0           253
           05:30 PM              4         122           1                  1           0             0              1          137             3             0          0          0           269
           05:45 PM              0          91           3                  2           0             1              2          117             4             0          0          0           220
               Total             7         448          10                  4           0             4              6          479            15             0          0          0           973

        Grand Total            13         817            19               10            0            7                8         804            27             0          0          0          1705
          Apprch %             1.5        96.2          2.2              58.8           0         41.2                1         95.8          3.2             0          0          0
           Total %             0.8        47.9          1.1               0.6           0          0.4              0.5         47.2          1.6             0          0          0




                               Grove Street                               Condo Driveway                                  Grove Street                       Office Drive Center
                               From North                                   From East                                      From South                            From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total          Right     Thru     Left App. Total         Right         Thru     Left   App. Total   Right    Thru      Left App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
    05:00 PM         0     116       3      119       0                       0        2             2         0       107           3         110        0          0      0           0       231
    05:15 PM         3     119       3      125       1                       0        1             2         3       118           5         126        0          0      0           0       253
    05:30 PM         4     122       1      127       1                       0        0             1         1       137           3         141        0          0      0           0       269
    05:45 PM         0      91       3       94       2                       0        1             3         2       117           4         123        0          0      0           0       220
 Total Volume        7     448      10      465       4                       0        4             8         6       479          15         500        0          0      0           0       973
 % App. Total      1.5    96.3     2.2               50                       0       50                     1.2      95.8           3                    0          0      0
          PHF    .438     .918    .833     .915    .500                    .000     .500         .667       .500      .874        .750        .887     .000       .000   .000       .000       .904
                                                                                            PRECISION
                                                                                            D A T A
N/S: Grove Street                                                                           INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                        File Name       : 91860 LL
                                                                                       P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Condo Drwy/Office Drive Center                                               Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                      Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                   Site Code       : 10865.00
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                            Start Date      : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/M. Santos                                                                                                                                              Page No         :1


                                                                                  Groups Printed- Heavy Vehicles
                                    Grove Street                             Condo Driveway                      Grove Street                             Office Drive Center
                                    From North                                 From East                         From South                                   From West
             Start Time       Right       Thru          Left             Right      Thru        Left      Right        Thru                  Left      Right         Thru       Left       Int. Total
           04:00 PM              0            2              0              0           0             0              0            5             0            0          0          0              7
           04:15 PM              0            0              0              0           0             0              0            1             0            0          0          0              1
           04:30 PM              1            1              0              0           0             0              0            2             0            0          0          0              4
           04:45 PM              0            1              0              0           0             0              0            4             0            0          0          0              5
               Total             1            4              0              0           0             0              0           12             0            0          0          0             17

           05:00 PM              0            1              0              0           0             0              0            2             0            0          0          0              3
           05:15 PM              0            0              0              0           0             0              0            1             0            0          0          0              1
           05:30 PM              0            1              0              0           0             0              0            2             0            0          0          0              3
           05:45 PM              0            1              0              0           0             0              0            2             0            0          0          0              3
               Total             0            3              0              0           0             0              0            7             0            0          0          0             10

        Grand Total              1           7               0              0           0             0              0          19              0            0          0          0             27
          Apprch %            12.5        87.5               0              0           0             0              0         100              0            0          0          0
           Total %             3.7        25.9               0              0           0             0              0         70.4             0            0          0          0




                               Grove Street                               Condo Driveway                                 Grove Street                       Office Drive Center
                               From North                                   From East                                     From South                            From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total          Right     Thru     Left App. Total         Right        Thru     Left   App. Total   Right    Thru      Left App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:00 PM
    04:00 PM         0       2       0        2       0                       0        0             0         0         5          0           5        0          0      0           0          7
    04:15 PM         0       0       0        0       0                       0        0             0         0         1          0           1        0          0      0           0          1
    04:30 PM         1       1       0        2       0                       0        0             0         0         2          0           2        0          0      0           0          4
    04:45 PM         0       1       0        1       0                       0        0             0         0         4          0           4        0          0      0           0          5
 Total Volume        1       4       0        5       0                       0        0             0         0        12          0          12        0          0      0           0         17
 % App. Total      20       80       0                0                       0        0                       0       100          0                    0          0      0
          PHF    .250     .500    .000     .625    .000                    .000     .000         .000       .000      .600       .000        .600     .000       .000   .000       .000       .607
                                                                                  PRECISION
                                                                                  D A T A
N/S: Grove Street                                                                 INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                                File Name        : 91860 LL
                                                                               P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Condo Drwy/Office Drive Center                                       Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                              Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                 Site Code        : 10865.00
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                          Start Date       : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/M. Santos                                                                                                                                            Page No          :1


                                                                        Groups Printed- Peds and Bicycles
                              Grove Street                       Condo Driveway                         Grove Street                                     Office Drive Center
                              From North                           From East                            From South                                           From West
       Start Time    Right    Thru      Left    Peds     Right     Thru     Left     Peds     Right     Thru      Left                Peds         Right     Thru      Left      Peds         Int. Total
      04:00 PM          0        0        0        1         0        0           0            2           0         0          0          0          0          0        0         1                 4
      04:15 PM          0        0        0        1         0        0           0            3           0         0          0          0          0          0        0         6                10
      04:30 PM          0        0        0        0         0        0           0            1           0         0          0          0          0          0        0         1                 2
      04:45 PM          0        0        0        1         0        0           0            2           0         0          0          0          0          0        0         7                10
          Total         0        0        0        3         0        0           0            8           0         0          0          0          0          0        0        15                26

      05:00 PM          0        1        0        0         0        0           0            0           0         0          0          0          0          0        0         8                 9
      05:15 PM          0        0        0        7         0        0           0            1           0         1          0          0          0          0        0        14                23
      05:30 PM          0        0        0        3         0        0           0            0           0         0          0          0          0          0        0         5                 8
      05:45 PM          0        0        0        2         0        0           0            0           0         0          0          0          0          0        0         8                10
          Total         0        1        0       12         0        0           0            1           0         1          0          0          0          0        0        35                50

   Grand Total          0        1        0      15          0        0           0         9              0          1         0          0          0          0        0       50                 76
     Apprch %           0      6.2        0     93.8         0        0           0      100               0       100          0          0          0          0        0      100
      Total %           0      1.3        0     19.7         0        0           0      11.8              0        1.3         0          0          0          0        0      65.8




                            Grove Street                       Condo Driveway                                      Grove Street                            Office Drive Center
                             From North                           From East                                         From South                                 From West
   Start Time Right Thru        Left Peds App. Total Right   Thru    Left Peds        App. Total   Right       Thru    Left Peds     App. Total   Right   Thru     Left Peds     App. Total    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:45 PM
  04:45 PM      0       0     0     1        1     0  0    0    2                            2        0    0              0     0           0        0       0      0    7             7            10
  05:00 PM      0       1     0     0        1     0  0    0    0                            0        0    0              0     0           0        0       0      0    8             8             9
  05:15 PM      0       0     0     7        7     0  0    0    1                            1        0    1                                1        0       0      0   14            14            23
  05:30 PM      0       0     0     3        3     0  0    0    0                            0        0    0            0        0          0        0       0      0    5             5             8
 Total Volume   0       1     0    11      12      0  0    0    3                            3        0    1            0        0          1        0       0      0   34            34            50
 % App. Total   0     8.3     0 91.7               0  0    0 100                                      0 100             0        0                   0       0      0 100
        PHF .000 .250 .000 .393          .429 .000 .000 .000 .375                       .375       .000 .250         .000     .000     .250       .000    .000   .000 .607         .607          .543
                                                                                                  PRECISION
                                                                                                  D A T A
N/S: Grove Street                                                                                 INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                                 File Name       : 91860 LL
                                                                                               P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Condo Drwy/Office Drive Center                                                       Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                              Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                                  Site Code       : 10865.00
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                                           Start Date      : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/M. Santos                                                                                                                                                             Page No         :1



                               Grove Street                                       Condo Driveway                               Grove Street                          Office Drive Center
                               From North                                           From East                                   From South                               From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total                   Right    Thru     Left App. Total         Right      Thru     Left   App. Total      Right    Thru      Left App. Total        Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
    05:00 PM          0    117        3     120       0                              0        2              2          0      109        3         112           0           0               0     0        234
     05:15 PM         3    119        3     125       1                              0        1              2          3      119        5         127           0           0               0     0        254
     05:30 PM         4    123        1     128       1                              0        0              1          1      139        3         143           0           0               0     0        272
     05:45 PM         0      92       3      95       2                              0        1              3          2      119        4         125           0           0               0     0        223
 Total Volume         7    451       10     468       4                              0        4              8          6      486       15         507           0           0               0     0        983
  % App. Total      1.5   96.4      2.1              50                              0       50                       1.2     95.9        3                       0           0               0
           PHF    .438    .917    .833     .914    .500                           .000     .500          .667       .500      .874     .750        .886        .000        .000            .000   .000      .903
           Cars       7    448      10      465       4                              0        4             8           6      479       15         500           0           0               0      0       973
       % Cars      100    99.3     100     99.4     100                              0      100           100        100      98.6      100        98.6           0           0               0      0      99.0
 Heavy Vehicles       0       3       0        3      0                              0        0             0           0         7       0            7          0           0               0      0        10
 % Heavy Vehicles     0     0.7       0      0.6      0                              0        0             0           0       1.4       0          1.4          0           0               0      0       1.0

                                                                                                       Grove Street
                                                                                               Out         In       Total
                                                                                                483         465      948
                                                                                                   7          3        10
                                                                                                490         468      958


                                                                                                      7  448         10
                                                                                                      0     3          0
                                                                                                      7  451         10
                                                                                                  Right Thru       Left




                                                                                          Peak Hour Data
                                                       22
                                                        0
                                                       22
                                                    Total




                                                                                                                                                                  Out
                                                                0
                                                                0
                                                                0




                                                                                                                                                 Right Thru
                                  Office Drive Center




                                                            Left




                                                                                                                                                                    16

                                                                                                                                                                    16

                                                                                                                                                                      Condo Driveway
                                                                                                                                                                      0




                                                                                                          North
                                                                                                                                                     4
                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                     4
                                               0
                                               0
                                               0




                                                                                         Peak Hour Begins at 05:00 PM
                                                                      0
                                                                      0
                                                                      0
                                                            Right Thru
                                            In




                                                                                                                                                                            In




                                                                                         Cars
                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                           0


                                                                                                                                                                               8
                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                               8




                                                                                         Heavy Vehicles
                                                                0
                                                                0
                                                                0




                                                                                                                                                 Left
                                   22
                                     0
                                   22
                                 Out




                                                                                                                                                                                   Total
                                                                                                                                                     4
                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                     4


                                                                                                                                                                                      24

                                                                                                                                                                                      24
                                                                                                                                                                                       0




                                                                                                  Left Thru Right
                                                                                                    15  479     6
                                                                                                      0    7    0
                                                                                                    15  486     6


                                                                                                452         500      952
                                                                                                   3          7        10
                                                                                                455         507      962
                                                                                               Out         In       Total
                                                                                                       Grove Street
                                                                                       PRECISION
                                                                                       D A T A
N/S: Grove Street                                                                      INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                            File Name        : 91860 M
                                                                                    P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Seminary Avenue/ Office Drive North                                       Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                   Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                  Site Code        : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                            Start Date       : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                            Page No          :1


                                                                            Groups Printed- Cars - Heavy Vehicles
                                 Grove Street                       Seminary Avenue                         Grove Street                                  Office Drive North
                                 From North                            From East                             From South                                       From West
           Start Time      Right      Thru          Left         Right     Thru         Left      Right      Thru        Left            U-Turn        Right       Thru          Left       Int. Total
          07:00 AM             5         73           0             0          1            1            3            95          3             0            1          0          0             182
          07:15 AM             4         78           0             0          0            1            9           154          7             0            0          0          2             255
          07:30 AM             4         87           0             0          0            0            4           101          6             0            1          0          1             204
          07:45 AM            10         98           0             0          1            1            0           132          8             0            1          0          1             252
              Total           23        336           0             0          2            3           16           482         24             0            3          0          4             893

          08:00 AM            16        100           1             0          1            0            3            93         12             0            1          0          1            228
          08:15 AM            15         93           0             1          1            4            5           159         16             0            0          0          1            295
          08:30 AM            12        103           1             1          1            2            6           130          8             1            0          0          0            265
          08:45 AM            18         95           1             2          0            1            4           109          8             0            1          0          1            240
              Total           61        391           3             4          3            7           18           491         44             1            2          0          3           1028

      Grand Total            84        727           3              4         5           10           34            973         68            1          5             0          7           1921
        Apprch %           10.3        89.3        0.4           21.1      26.3         52.6          3.2            90.4       6.3          0.1       41.7             0       58.3
          Total %           4.4        37.8        0.2            0.2       0.3          0.5          1.8            50.7       3.5          0.1        0.3             0        0.4
            Cars             84         708          3              4         5           10           34            956         68            1          5             0          6           1884
          % Cars           100         97.4        100           100       100          100           100            98.3       100         100        100              0       85.7            98.1
   Heavy Vehicles             0          19          0              0         0            0            0              17         0            0          0             0          1             37
  % Heavy Vehicles            0          2.6         0              0         0            0            0             1.7         0            0          0             0       14.3             1.9




                             Grove Street                          Seminary Avenue                                 Grove Street                              Office Drive North
                              From North                             From East                                     From South                                    From West
      Start Time    Right    Thru     Left App. Total    Right      Thru     Left App. Total       Right      Thru     Left U-Turn      App. Total   Right     Thru      Left App. Total    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
    07:45 AM        10    98       0     108       0    1                      1            2         0       132           8       0       140         1          0        1           2       252
    08:00 AM        16   100       1     117       0    1                      0            1         3        93         12        0       108         1          0        1           2       228
    08:15 AM        15     93      0     108       1    1                      4            6         5       159         16        0       180         0          0        1           1       295
    08:30 AM        12   103       1     116       1    1                      2            4         6       130           8       1
 Total Volume       53   394       2     449       2    4                      7           13       14        514          44       1       573         2           0      3            5     1040
 % App. Total     11.8 87.8      0.4            15.4 30.8                   53.8                    2.4      89.7         7.7     0.2                  40           0     60
          PHF .828 .956 .500            .959 .500 1.000                     .438        .542      .583       .808       .688    .250       .796      .500        .000   .750      .625         .881
          Cars      53   384       2     439       2    4                      7          13        14        508         44        1       567         2           0      3         5        1024
       % Cars      100 97.5     100     97.8     100 100                     100         100       100       98.8        100     100       99.0       100           0    100       100         98.5
 Heavy Vehicles      0     10      0       10      0    0                      0           0          0          6          0       0          6        0           0      0         0           16
 % Heavy Vehicles    0    2.5      0      2.2      0    0                      0           0          0        1.2          0       0        1.0        0           0      0         0          1.5
                                                                                       PRECISION
                                                                                       D A T A
N/S: Grove Street                                                                      INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                           File Name        : 91860 M
                                                                                   P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Seminary Avenue/ Office Drive North                                      Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                  Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                 Site Code        : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                           Start Date       : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                           Page No          :1


                                                                                      Groups Printed- Cars
                                 Grove Street                       Seminary Avenue                                Grove Street                          Office Drive North
                                 From North                            From East                                   From South                                From West
           Start Time      Right      Thru          Left         Right     Thru          Left       Right          Thru         Left    U-Turn        Right       Thru          Left       Int. Total
          07:00 AM             5         68           0             0         1            1            3           92           3             0            1          0          0             174
          07:15 AM             4         78           0             0         0            1            9          152           7             0            0          0          1             252
          07:30 AM             4         85           0             0         0            0            4           97           6             0            1          0          1             198
          07:45 AM            10         92           0             0         1            1            0          130           8             0            1          0          1             244
              Total           23        323           0             0         2            3           16          471          24             0            3          0          3             868

          08:00 AM            16         99           1             0         1            0            3           91          12             0            1          0          1            225
          08:15 AM            15         91           0             1         1            4            5          157          16             0            0          0          1            291
          08:30 AM            12        102           1             1         1            2            6          130           8             1            0          0          0            264
          08:45 AM            18         93           1             2         0            1            4          107           8             0            1          0          1            236
              Total           61        385           3             4         3            7           18          485          44             1            2          0          3           1016

       Grand Total           84        708            3             4        5           10            34          956          68            1          5             0          6           1884
         Apprch %          10.6        89.1         0.4          21.1     26.3         52.6           3.2          90.3         6.4         0.1       45.5             0       54.5
          Total %           4.5        37.6         0.2           0.2      0.3          0.5           1.8          50.7         3.6         0.1        0.3             0        0.3




                             Grove Street                         Seminary Avenue                                 Grove Street                              Office Drive North
                              From North                            From East                                     From South                                    From West
      Start Time    Right    Thru     Left App. Total    Right     Thru     Left App. Total       Right      Thru     Left U-Turn      App. Total   Right     Thru      Left App. Total    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
   07:45 AM       10      92       0     102       0    1                     1            2        0        130          8       0        138         1          0        1           2       244
    08:00 AM      16      99       1     116       0    1                     0            1        3         91         12       0        106         1          0        1           2       225
    08:15 AM      15      91       0     106       1    1                     4            6        5        157         16       0        178         0          0        1           1       291
    08:30 AM      12     102       1     115       1    1                     2            4        6        130          8       1
 Total Volume     53     384       2     439       2    4                     7           13       14        508         44       1        567         2           0      3            5     1024
 % App. Total   12.1 87.5        0.5            15.4 30.8                  53.8                   2.5       89.6        7.8     0.2                   40           0     60
         PHF .828 .941 .500             .946 .500 1.000                    .438         .542     .583       .809       .688    .250       .796      .500        .000   .750      .625         .880
                                                                                       PRECISION
                                                                                       D A T A
N/S: Grove Street                                                                      INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                            File Name        : 91860 M
                                                                                    P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Seminary Avenue/ Office Drive North                                       Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                   Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                  Site Code        : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                            Start Date       : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                            Page No          :1


                                                                               Groups Printed- Heavy Vehicles
                                 Grove Street                       Seminary Avenue                         Grove Street                                  Office Drive North
                                 From North                            From East                            From South                                        From West
           Start Time      Right      Thru          Left         Right     Thru        Left      Right      Thru         Left            U-Turn        Right       Thru          Left       Int. Total
          07:00 AM             0          5           0             0          0            0              0             3         0            0            0          0          0               8
          07:15 AM             0          0           0             0          0            0              0             2         0            0            0          0          1               3
          07:30 AM             0          2           0             0          0            0              0             4         0            0            0          0          0               6
          07:45 AM             0          6           0             0          0            0              0             2         0            0            0          0          0               8
              Total            0         13           0             0          0            0              0            11         0            0            0          0          1              25

          08:00 AM             0           1          0             0          0            0              0             2         0            0            0          0          0               3
          08:15 AM             0           2          0             0          0            0              0             2         0            0            0          0          0               4
          08:30 AM             0           1          0             0          0            0              0             0         0            0            0          0          0               1
          08:45 AM             0           2          0             0          0            0              0             2         0            0            0          0          0               4
              Total            0           6          0             0          0            0              0             6         0            0            0          0          0              12

       Grand Total             0        19            0             0          0            0              0           17          0            0            0          0          1              37
         Apprch %              0       100            0             0          0            0              0          100          0            0            0          0       100
          Total %              0       51.4           0             0          0            0              0          45.9         0            0            0          0        2.7




                             Grove Street                          Seminary Avenue                                  Grove Street                             Office Drive North
                              From North                             From East                                      From South                                   From West
      Start Time    Right    Thru     Left App. Total    Right      Thru     Left App. Total       Right       Thru     Left U-Turn     App. Total   Right     Thru      Left App. Total    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:00 AM
   07:00 AM        0       5       0        5      0 0                         0            0        0            3          0     0           3        0           0      0            0          8
    07:15 AM       0       0       0        0      0 0                         0            0        0            2          0     0           2        0           0      1            1          3
    07:30 AM       0       2       0        2      0 0                         0            0        0            4                            4        0           0      0            0          6
    07:45 AM       0       6       0        6      0 0                         0            0        0            2        0        0          2        0           0      0            0          8
 Total Volume      0      13       0      13       0 0                         0            0        0           11        0        0         11        0           0      1            1         25
 % App. Total      0     100       0               0 0                         0                     0          100        0        0                   0           0    100
         PHF .000 .542 .000             .542 .000 .000                      .000        .000      .000         .688     .000     .000      .688      .000        .000   .250      .250         .781
                                                                                 PRECISION
                                                                                 D A T A
N/S: Grove Street                                                                INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                               File Name       : 91860 M
                                                                              P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Seminary Avenue/ Office Drive North                                 Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                             Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                               Site Code       : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                         Start Date      : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                         Page No         :1


                                                                      Groups Printed- Peds and Bicycles
                              Grove Street                     Seminary Avenue                        Grove Street                                     Office Drive North
                              From North                         From East                            From South                                           From West
       Start Time    Right    Thru      Left    Peds     Right   Thru      Left    Peds     Right     Thru      Left                Peds         Right    Thru       Left     Peds         Int. Total
      07:00 AM          0        1        0        0         0       0           0          3             0         4         0          0          0          0       0         3                11
      07:15 AM          0        0        0        0         0       0           0          3             0         0         0          0          0          0       0         3                 6
      07:30 AM          0        0        0        0         0       0           0          3             0         0         1          0          0          0       0         5                 9
      07:45 AM          0        1        0        0         0       0           0          4             0         0         0          0          0          0       0        10                15
          Total         0        2        0        0         0       0           0         13             0         4         1          0          0          0       0        21                41

      08:00 AM          0        1        0        0         0       0           0          7             0         0         0          0          0          0       0         3                11
      08:15 AM          0        1        0        0         0       0           0         15             0         1         0          0          0          0       0         8                25
      08:30 AM          0        1        0        0         0       1           0          4             0         0         0          0          0          0       0         9                15
      08:45 AM          1        2        0        0         0       1           0          2             0         0         0          0          0          0       0         4                10
          Total         1        5        0        0         0       2           0         28             0         1         0          0          0          0       0        24                61

   Grand Total          1        7        0        0         0       2           0       41               0         5          1         0          0          0       0       45              102
     Apprch %        12.5     87.5        0        0         0     4.7           0      95.3              0      83.3       16.7         0          0          0       0      100
      Total %           1      6.9        0        0         0       2           0      40.2              0       4.9          1         0          0          0       0      44.1




                            Grove Street                      Seminary Avenue                                     Grove Street                           Office Drive North
                             From North                           From East                                        From South                                From West
   Start Time Right Thru        Left Peds App. Total Right   Thru    Left Peds       App. Total   Right       Thru    Left Peds    App. Total   Right   Thru    Left Peds     App. Total    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
  07:45 AM      0       1     0     0        1     0   0 0    4                            4         0          0       0      0          0        0      0        0    10         10            15
  08:00 AM      0       1     0     0        1     0   0 0    7                            7         0          0       0      0          0        0      0        0     3          3            11
  08:15 AM      0       1     0     0        1     0   0 0  15                            15         0          1                         1        0      0        0     8          8            25
  08:30 AM      0       1     0     0        1     0   1
 Total Volume   0       4     0     0        4     0   1 0   30                           31         0    1            0       0          1        0       0      0   30           30            66
 % App. Total   0 100         0     0              0 3.2 0 96.8                                      0 100             0       0                   0       0      0 100
        PHF .000 1.000 .000 .000 1.000 .000 .250 .000 .500                             .517       .000 .250         .000    .000     .250       .000    .000   .000 .750        .750          .660
                                                                                              PRECISION
                                                                                              D A T A
N/S: Grove Street                                                                             INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                                 File Name       : 91860 M
                                                                                           P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Seminary Avenue/ Office Drive North                                              Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                          Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                              Site Code       : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                                        Start Date      : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                                        Page No         :1



                             Grove Street                                 Seminary Avenue                                 Grove Street                                 Office Drive North
                              From North                                    From East                                     From South                                       From West
      Start Time    Right    Thru     Left App. Total    Right             Thru     Left App. Total        Right     Thru     Left U-Turn      App. Total    Right       Thru      Left App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
    07:45 AM        10    98       0     108       0    1                             1             2         0      132           8       0       140           1              0        1      2        252
    08:00 AM        16   100       1     117       0    1                             0             1         3       93         12        0       108           1              0        1      2        228
    08:15 AM        15     93      0     108       1    1                             4             6         5      159         16        0       180           0              0        1      1        295
    08:30 AM        12   103       1     116       1    1                             2             4         6      130           8       1
 Total Volume       53   394       2     449       2    4                             7            13       14       514          44       1       573          2            0            3     5      1040
 % App. Total     11.8 87.8      0.4            15.4 30.8                          53.8                     2.4     89.7         7.7     0.2                   40            0           60
          PHF .828 .956 .500            .959 .500 1.000                            .438        .542       .583      .808       .688    .250        .796      .500         .000         .750   .625      .881
          Cars      53   384       2     439       2    4                             7          13         14       508         44        1        567         2            0            3      5     1024
       % Cars      100 97.5     100     97.8     100 100                            100         100        100      98.8        100     100        99.0       100            0          100    100      98.5
 Heavy Vehicles      0     10      0       10      0    0                             0           0           0         6          0       0           6        0            0            0      0        16
 % Heavy Vehicles    0    2.5      0      2.2      0    0                             0           0           0       1.2          0       0         1.0        0            0            0      0       1.5

                                                                                                   Grove Street
                                                                                           Out         In       Total
                                                                                            513         439      952
                                                                                               6         10        16
                                                                                            519         449      968


                                                                                                53  384             2
                                                                                                 0   10             0
                                                                                                53  394             2
                                                                                             Right Thru         Left




                                                                                       Peak Hour Data
                                                     106
                                                        0
                                                     106
                                                    Total




                                                                                                                                                               Out
                                                                3
                                                                0
                                                                3




                                                                                                                                               Right Thru
                                                            Left




                                                                                                                                                                 16

                                                                                                                                                                 16
                                  Office Drive North




                                                                                                                                                                 Seminary Avenue
                                                                                                                                                                   0




                                                                                                        North
                                                                                                                                                   2
                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                   2
                                               5
                                               0
                                               5




                                                                                     Peak Hour Begins at 07:45 AM
                                                                      0
                                                                      0
                                                                      0
                                                            Right Thru
                                            In




                                                                                                                                                                       In
                                                                                                                                                                         13

                                                                                                                                                                         13




                                                                                     Cars
                                                                                                                                                         4
                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                         4



                                                                                                                                                                          0




                                                                                     Heavy Vehicles
                                                                2
                                                                0
                                                                2




                                                                                                                                               Left
                                  101
                                     0
                                  101
                                 Out




                                                                                                                                                                               Total
                                                                                                                                                   7
                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                   7


                                                                                                                                                                                  29

                                                                                                                                                                                  29
                                                                                                                                                                                   0




                                                                                          Left Thru Right U-Turn
                                                                                            44  508    14     1
                                                                                              0    6    0     0
                                                                                            44  514    14     1


                                                                                            393         567      960
                                                                                             10           6        16
                                                                                            403         573      976
                                                                                           Out         In       Total
                                                                                                   Grove Street
                                                                                       PRECISION
                                                                                       D A T A
N/S: Grove Street                                                                      INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                           File Name          : 91860 MM
                                                                                    P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Seminary Avenue/ Office Drive North                                       Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                   Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                 Site Code          : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                           Start Date         : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                           Page No            :1


                                                                            Groups Printed- Cars - Heavy Vehicles
                                 Grove Street                       Seminary Avenue                         Grove Street                                   Office Drive North
                                 From North                            From East                             From South                                        From West
           Start Time      Right      Thru          Left         Right     Thru         Left      Right      Thru        Left             U-Turn        Right       Thru          Left      Int. Total
          04:00 PM             1         92           0             0          0           5               3            75          1            0         5            1          5             188
          04:15 PM             1         83           0             0          0           3               1            85          0            1         3            0          7             184
          04:30 PM             0         92           0             0          0           3               2            99          0            0         4            0          9             209
          04:45 PM             0         91           0             1          0           3               1            80          0            0         4            1         11             192
              Total            2        358           0             1          0          14               7           339          1            1        16            2         32             773

          05:00 PM             0        111           1             0          0           9             2             108          0            0         3            1         24            259
          05:15 PM             2        114           0             2          0           2             5             115          0            0         8            1         19            268
          05:30 PM             1        120           1             3          0           2             3             140          0            0         5            1         19            295
          05:45 PM             0         95           4             1          0           3             1             126          0            0         1            0         15            246
              Total            3        440           6             6          0          16            11             489          0            0        17            3         77           1068

      Grand Total              5       798           6              7          0         30            18              828           1          1         33             5      109            1841
        Apprch %             0.6       98.6        0.7           18.9          0        81.1          2.1              97.6       0.1         0.1       22.4           3.4      74.1
          Total %            0.3       43.3        0.3            0.4          0         1.6            1                45        0.1        0.1        1.8           0.3       5.9
            Cars               4       791           6              6          0         30            18              810           1          1         33             4      109            1813
          % Cars             80        99.1        100           85.7          0        100           100              97.8       100        100        100            80       100             98.5
   Heavy Vehicles              1          7          0              1          0           0            0                18          0          0          0             1         0             28
  % Heavy Vehicles            20        0.9          0           14.3          0           0            0               2.2          0          0          0            20         0             1.5




                             Grove Street                          Seminary Avenue                                  Grove Street                              Office Drive North
                              From North                             From East                                      From South                                    From West
      Start Time    Right    Thru     Left App. Total    Right      Thru     Left App. Total       Right       Thru     Left U-Turn      App. Total   Right     Thru      Left App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
    05:00 PM         0   111       1     112       0 0                         9            9         2         108           0      0       110         3         1      24          28       259
    05:15 PM         2   114       0     116       2 0                         2            4         5         115           0      0       120         8         1      19          28       268
    05:30 PM         1   120       1     122       3 0                         2            5         3         140                          143         5         1      19          25       295
    05:45 PM         0     95      4       99      1 0                         3            4         1         126         0        0       127         1         0      15          16       246
 Total Volume        3   440       6     449       6 0                        16           22       11          489         0        0       500        17         3      77          97      1068
 % App. Total      0.7     98    1.3            27.3 0                      72.7                    2.2        97.8         0        0                17.5       3.1    79.4
          PHF .375 .917 .375            .920 .500 .000                      .444        .611      .550         .873      .000     .000      .874      .531     .750     .802       .866        .905
          Cars       2   438       6     446       5 0                        16          21        11          482         0        0       493        17         3      77         97       1057
       % Cars 66.7 99.5         100     99.3 83.3    0                       100        95.5       100         98.6         0        0      98.6       100      100      100        100        99.0
 Heavy Vehicles      1      2      0        3      1 0                         0           1          0            7        0        0          7        0         0       0          0          11
 % Heavy Vehicles 33.3    0.5      0      0.7 16.7   0                         0         4.5          0          1.4        0        0        1.4        0         0       0          0         1.0
                                                                                       PRECISION
                                                                                       D A T A
N/S: Grove Street                                                                      INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                           File Name          : 91860 MM
                                                                                   P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Seminary Avenue/ Office Drive North                                      Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                  Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                 Site Code          : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                           Start Date         : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                           Page No            :1


                                                                                      Groups Printed- Cars
                                 Grove Street                       Seminary Avenue                                  Grove Street                          Office Drive North
                                 From North                            From East                                     From South                                From West
           Start Time      Right      Thru          Left         Right     Thru          Left       Right            Thru         Left    U-Turn        Right       Thru          Left      Int. Total
          04:00 PM             1         90           0             0         0            5              3           70            1            0         5            0          5             180
          04:15 PM             1         83           0             0         0            3              1           85            0            1         3            0          7             184
          04:30 PM             0         90           0             0         0            3              2           97            0            0         4            0          9             205
          04:45 PM             0         90           0             1         0            3              1           76            0            0         4            1         11             187
              Total            2        353           0             1         0           14              7          328            1            1        16            1         32             756

          05:00 PM             0        110           1             0         0            9            2            106            0            0         3            1         24            256
          05:15 PM             1        114           0             2         0            2            5            114            0            0         8            1         19            266
          05:30 PM             1        119           1             2         0            2            3            139            0            0         5            1         19            292
          05:45 PM             0         95           4             1         0            3            1            123            0            0         1            0         15            243
              Total            2        438           6             5         0           16           11            482            0            0        17            3         77           1057

       Grand Total             4       791            6             6         0         30             18            810            1           1         33            4       109            1813
         Apprch %            0.5       98.8         0.7          16.7         0        83.3           2.2            97.6         0.1         0.1       22.6          2.7       74.7
          Total %            0.2       43.6         0.3           0.3         0         1.7             1            44.7         0.1         0.1        1.8          0.2          6




                             Grove Street                         Seminary Avenue                                  Grove Street                               Office Drive North
                              From North                            From East                                      From South                                     From West
      Start Time    Right    Thru     Left App. Total    Right     Thru     Left App. Total       Right       Thru     Left U-Turn       App. Total   Right     Thru      Left App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
   05:00 PM        0     110       1     111       0 0                        9            9        2          106          0        0       108         3        1       24          28       256
    05:15 PM       1     114       0     115       2 0                        2            4        5          114          0        0       119         8        1       19          28       266
    05:30 PM       1     119       1     121       2 0                        2            4        3          139                           142         5        1       19          25       292
    05:45 PM       0      95       4      99       1 0                        3            4        1          123         0        0        124         1        0       15          16       243
 Total Volume      2     438       6     446       5 0                       16           21       11          482         0        0        493        17        3       77          97      1057
 % App. Total    0.4 98.2        1.3            23.8 0                     76.2                   2.2         97.8         0        0                 17.5      3.1     79.4
         PHF .500 .920 .375             .921 .625 .000                     .444         .583     .550         .867      .000     .000       .868      .531     .750     .802       .866        .905
                                                                                       PRECISION
                                                                                       D A T A
N/S: Grove Street                                                                      INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                          File Name        : 91860 MM
                                                                                    P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Seminary Avenue/ Office Drive North                                       Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                   Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                Site Code        : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                          Start Date       : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                          Page No          :1


                                                                               Groups Printed- Heavy Vehicles
                                 Grove Street                       Seminary Avenue                         Grove Street                                Office Drive North
                                 From North                            From East                            From South                                      From West
           Start Time      Right      Thru          Left         Right     Thru        Left      Right      Thru         Left          U-Turn        Right       Thru          Left       Int. Total
          04:00 PM             0           2          0             0          0            0              0             5       0            0            0            1        0               8
          04:15 PM             0           0          0             0          0            0              0             0       0            0            0            0        0               0
          04:30 PM             0           2          0             0          0            0              0             2       0            0            0            0        0               4
          04:45 PM             0           1          0             0          0            0              0             4       0            0            0            0        0               5
              Total            0           5          0             0          0            0              0            11       0            0            0            1        0              17

          05:00 PM             0           1          0             0          0            0              0             2       0            0            0            0        0               3
          05:15 PM             1           0          0             0          0            0              0             1       0            0            0            0        0               2
          05:30 PM             0           1          0             1          0            0              0             1       0            0            0            0        0               3
          05:45 PM             0           0          0             0          0            0              0             3       0            0            0            0        0               3
              Total            1           2          0             1          0            0              0             7       0            0            0            0        0              11

       Grand Total            1           7           0             1          0            0              0           18        0            0            0             1       0              28
         Apprch %          12.5        87.5           0          100           0            0              0          100        0            0            0          100        0
          Total %           3.6         25            0           3.6          0            0              0          64.3       0            0            0           3.6       0




                             Grove Street                          Seminary Avenue                                  Grove Street                           Office Drive North
                              From North                             From East                                      From South                                 From West
      Start Time    Right    Thru     Left App. Total    Right      Thru     Left App. Total       Right       Thru     Left U-Turn   App. Total   Right     Thru      Left App. Total    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:00 PM
   04:00 PM        0       2       0        2      0 0                         0            0        0            5        0      0          5        0           1        0          1          8
    04:15 PM       0       0       0        0      0 0                         0            0        0            0        0      0          0        0           0        0          0          0
    04:30 PM       0       2       0        2      0 0                         0            0        0            2        0      0          2        0           0        0          0          4
    04:45 PM       0       1       0        1      0 0                         0            0        0            4        0      0          4        0           0        0          0          5
 Total Volume      0       5       0        5      0 0                         0            0        0           11        0      0         11        0           1        0          1         17
 % App. Total      0     100       0               0 0                         0                     0          100        0      0                   0         100        0
         PHF .000 .625 .000             .625 .000 .000                      .000        .000      .000         .550     .000   .000      .550      .000        .250     .000    .250         .531
                                                                                 PRECISION
                                                                                 D A T A
N/S: Grove Street                                                                INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                              File Name       : 91860 MM
                                                                              P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Seminary Avenue/ Office Drive North                                 Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                             Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                              Site Code       : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                        Start Date      : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                        Page No         :1


                                                                      Groups Printed- Peds and Bicycles
                              Grove Street                     Seminary Avenue                        Grove Street                                    Office Drive North
                              From North                         From East                            From South                                          From West
       Start Time    Right    Thru      Left    Peds     Right   Thru      Left    Peds     Right     Thru      Left               Peds         Right    Thru       Left     Peds         Int. Total
      04:00 PM          0        0        0        0         0       0           0          8             0         0        0          0          0          0       0         2                10
      04:15 PM          0        0        0        0         0       0           0          0             0         1        0          0          0          0       0         7                 8
      04:30 PM          0        0        0        0         0       0           0          2             0         0        0          0          1          0       0         0                 3
      04:45 PM          0        1        0        0         0       0           0          2             0         1        0          0          0          1       0         4                 9
          Total         0        1        0        0         0       0           0         12             0         2        0          0          1          1       0        13                30

      05:00 PM          0        1        0        1         0       0           0          1             0         1        0          0          0          0       0         6                10
      05:15 PM          0        0        0        0         0       0           0          9             0         1        0          2          0          0       0         5                17
      05:30 PM          0        0        0        0         0       0           0          1             0         0        0          1          0          0       1         4                 7
      05:45 PM          0        0        0        0         0       0           0          5             0         0        0          1          0          0       0         7                13
          Total         0        1        0        1         0       0           0         16             0         2        0          4          0          0       1        22                47

   Grand Total          0        2        0        1         0       0           0       28               0         4        0         4           1        1         1        35                77
     Apprch %           0     66.7        0     33.3         0       0           0      100               0       50         0       50          2.6      2.6       2.6      92.1
      Total %           0      2.6        0      1.3         0       0           0      36.4              0       5.2        0       5.2         1.3      1.3       1.3      45.5




                            Grove Street                      Seminary Avenue                                     Grove Street                          Office Drive North
                             From North                           From East                                        From South                               From West
   Start Time Right Thru        Left Peds App. Total Right   Thru    Left Peds       App. Total   Right       Thru    Left Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru    Left Peds     App. Total    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
  05:00 PM      0       1     0     1        2     0  0    0    1                          1         0    1            0      0          1        0       0      0    6             6           10
  05:15 PM      0       0     0     0        0     0  0    0    9                          9         0    1            0      2          3        0       0      0    5             5           17
  05:30 PM      0       0     0     0        0     0  0    0    1                          1         0    0            0      1          1        0       0      1
  05:45 PM      0       0     0     0        0     0  0    0    5                          5         0    0            0      1          1        0       0      0    7            7            13
 Total Volume   0       1     0     1        2     0  0    0   16                         16         0    2            0      4          6        0       0      1   22           23            47
 % App. Total   0     50      0    50              0  0    0 100                                     0 33.3            0   66.7                   0       0    4.3 95.7
        PHF .000 .250 .000 .250          .250 .000 .000 .000 .444                      .444       .000 .500         .000   .500     .500       .000    .000   .250 .786        .821          .691
                                                                                              PRECISION
                                                                                              D A T A
N/S: Grove Street                                                                             INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                               File Name       : 91860 MM
                                                                                           P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Seminary Avenue/ Office Drive North                                              Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                          Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                            Site Code       : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                                      Start Date      : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                                      Page No         :1



                             Grove Street                                 Seminary Avenue                                 Grove Street                               Office Drive North
                              From North                                    From East                                     From South                                     From West
      Start Time    Right    Thru     Left App. Total    Right             Thru     Left App. Total        Right     Thru     Left U-Turn    App. Total    Right       Thru      Left App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
    05:00 PM         0   111       1     112       0 0                                9             9         2      108         0      0        110          3             1          24    28       259
    05:15 PM         2   114       0     116       2 0                                2             4         5      115         0      0        120          8             1          19    28       268
    05:30 PM         1   120       1     122       3 0                                2             5         3      140                         143          5             1          19    25       295
    05:45 PM         0     95      4       99      1 0                                3             4         1      126          0      0       127          1             0          15    16       246
 Total Volume        3   440       6     449       6 0                               16            22       11       489          0      0       500         17             3          77    97      1068
 % App. Total      0.7     98    1.3            27.3 0                             72.7                     2.2     97.8          0      0                 17.5           3.1        79.4
          PHF .375 .917 .375            .920 .500 .000                             .444        .611       .550      .873       .000   .000       .874      .531         .750         .802   .866      .905
          Cars       2   438       6     446       5 0                               16          21         11       482          0      0        493        17             3          77     97     1057
       % Cars 66.7 99.5         100     99.3 83.3    0                              100        95.5        100      98.6          0      0       98.6       100          100          100    100      99.0
 Heavy Vehicles      1      2      0        3      1 0                                0           1           0         7         0      0           7        0             0           0      0        11
 % Heavy Vehicles 33.3    0.5      0      0.7 16.7   0                                0         4.5           0       1.4         0      0         1.4        0             0           0      0       1.0

                                                                                                   Grove Street
                                                                                           Out         In       Total
                                                                                            564         446     1010
                                                                                               8          3        11
                                                                                            572         449     1021


                                                                                                 2  438             6
                                                                                                 1     2            0
                                                                                                 3  440             6
                                                                                             Right Thru         Left




                                                                                       Peak Hour Data
                                                       99
                                                        1
                                                     100
                                                    Total




                                                                                                                                                             Out
                                                              77
                                                                0
                                                              77




                                                                                                                                             Right Thru
                                                            Left




                                                                                                                                                               20

                                                                                                                                                               20
                                  Office Drive North




                                                                                                                                                               Seminary Avenue
                                                                                                                                                                 0




                                                                                                        North
                                                                                                                                                 6
                                                                                                                                                 1
                                                                                                                                                 5
                                              97
                                               0
                                              97




                                                                                     Peak Hour Begins at 05:00 PM
                                                                      3
                                                                      0
                                                                      3
                                                            Right Thru
                                            In




                                                                                                                                                                     In
                                                                                                                                                                       22

                                                                                                                                                                       21




                                                                                     Cars
                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                       0



                                                                                                                                                                        1




                                                                                     Heavy Vehicles
                                                               17
                                                                0
                                                               17




                                                                                                                                             Left
                                     2
                                     1
                                     3
                                 Out




                                                                                                                                                                             Total
                                                                                                                                               16

                                                                                                                                               16
                                                                                                                                                 0



                                                                                                                                                                                42

                                                                                                                                                                                41
                                                                                                                                                                                 1




                                                                                          Left Thru Right U-Turn
                                                                                              0 482    11     0
                                                                                              0    7    0     0
                                                                                              0 489    11     0


                                                                                            471         493      964
                                                                                               2          7         9
                                                                                            473         500      973
                                                                                           Out         In       Total
                                                                                                   Grove Street
                                                                                 PRECISION
                                                                                 D A T A
N/S: Hancock Street/ Grove Street                                                INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                    File Name        : 91860 N
                                                                              P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E: Grove Street                                                          Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                             Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                    Site Code        : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                              Start Date       : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                              Page No          :1


                                                                    Groups Printed- Cars - Heavy Vehicles
                                        Hancock Street                       Grove Street                                           Grove Street
                                         From North                            From East                                            From South
                    Start Time           Thru             Left       Right             Left         U-Turn                  Right           Thru          U-Turn         Int. Total
                   07:00 AM                 3               0              1                 72                     0        88               7               0               171
                   07:15 AM                 5               1              2                 71                     1       147               3               0               230
                   07:30 AM                 4               0              5                 82                     3        94              12               0               200
                   07:45 AM                 3               0              5                104                     2       125               8               0               247
                       Total               15               1             13                329                     6       454              30               0               848

                   08:00 AM                 4               0             10                106                    4         75              15               0              214
                   08:15 AM                 7               0             23                 97                    3        136              25               1              292
                   08:30 AM                 4               0             25                116                    1        117               8               0              271
                   08:45 AM                 2               0              5                109                    1        112               5               0              234
                       Total               17               0             63                428                    9        440              53               1             1011

              Grand Total                 32               1              76               757                     15       894              83                1            1859
                Apprch %                  97               3                9              89.3                   1.8       91.4             8.5             0.1
                  Total %                 1.7            0.1              4.1              40.7                   0.8       48.1             4.5             0.1
                    Cars                  31               1              73               738                     15       880              80                1            1819
                  % Cars                 96.9            100             96.1              97.5                   100       98.4            96.4            100              97.8
           Heavy Vehicles                   1              0                3                19                     0         14               3               0              40
         % Heavy Vehicles                 3.1              0              3.9               2.5                     0        1.6             3.6               0              2.2




                                   Hancock Street                                 Grove Street                                         Grove Street
                                     From North                                    From East                                           From South
            Start Time        Thru        Left     App. Total    Right            Left     U-Turn          App. Total     Right       Thru     U-Turn      App. Total    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
         07:45 AM            3         0             3              5            104              2                111     125          8             0            133       247
         08:00 AM            4         0             4             10            106              4                120       75        15             0             90       214
         08:15 AM            7         0             7             23             97              3                123     136         25             1            162       292
         08:30 AM            4         0             4             25            116              1                142     117          8             0            125       271
      Total Volume          18         0            18             63            423             10                496     453         56             1            510      1024
      % App. Total         100         0                         12.7           85.3              2                       88.8         11           0.2
               PHF        .643      .000          .643           .630           .912           .625               .873    .833       .560          .250        .787          .877
              Cars          18         0            18             60            415             10                485     448         55             1         504         1007
            % Cars         100         0           100           95.2           98.1            100               97.8    98.9       98.2           100        98.8          98.3
    Heavy Vehicles           0         0             0              3               8             0                  11       5         1             0            6           17
  % Heavy Vehicles           0         0             0            4.8             1.9             0                 2.2     1.1       1.8             0          1.2          1.7
                                                                                 PRECISION
                                                                                 D A T A
N/S: Hancock Street/ Grove Street                                                INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                   File Name        : 91860 N
                                                                              P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E: Grove Street                                                          Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                             Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                   Site Code        : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                             Start Date       : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                             Page No          :1


                                                                               Groups Printed- Cars
                                        Hancock Street                          Grove Street                                       Grove Street
                                         From North                              From East                                         From South
                    Start Time           Thru             Left           Right            Left               U-Turn        Right           Thru          U-Turn         Int. Total
                   07:00 AM                 3               0               1                66                    0        86               7               0               163
                   07:15 AM                 5               1               2                71                    1       145               2               0               227
                   07:30 AM                 4               0               5                79                    3        92              11               0               194
                   07:45 AM                 3               0               5                99                    2       122               8               0               239
                       Total               15               1              13               315                    6       445              28               0               823

                   08:00 AM                 4               0              10               105                    4        74              14               0               211
                   08:15 AM                 7               0              20                96                    3       135              25               1               287
                   08:30 AM                 4               0              25               115                    1       117               8               0               270
                   08:45 AM                 1               0               5               107                    1       109               5               0               228
                       Total               16               0              60               423                    9       435              52               1               996

                Grand Total                31               1             73               738                     15      880             80                1             1819
                  Apprch %               96.9             3.1             8.8              89.3                   1.8      91.6            8.3             0.1
                   Total %                1.7             0.1               4              40.6                   0.8      48.4            4.4             0.1




                                   Hancock Street                                 Grove Street                                        Grove Street
                                     From North                                    From East                                          From South
            Start Time        Thru        Left     App. Total    Right            Left     U-Turn          App. Total    Right       Thru     U-Turn      App. Total    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
         07:45 AM            3         0             3              5             99              2               106     122          8             0            130       239
         08:00 AM            4         0             4             10            105              4               119      74         14             0             88       211
         08:15 AM            7         0             7             20             96              3               119     135         25             1            161       287
         08:30 AM            4         0             4             25            115              1               141     117          8             0            125       270
      Total Volume          18         0            18             60            415             10               485     448         55             1            504      1007
      % App. Total         100         0                         12.4           85.6            2.1                      88.9       10.9           0.2
               PHF        .643      .000          .643           .600           .902           .625               .860   .830       .550          .250        .783          .877
                                                                                 PRECISION
                                                                                 D A T A
N/S: Hancock Street/ Grove Street                                                INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                     File Name       : 91860 N
                                                                              P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E: Grove Street                                                          Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                             Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                     Site Code       : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                               Start Date      : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                               Page No         :1


                                                                          Groups Printed- Heavy Vehicles
                                        Hancock Street                          Grove Street                                         Grove Street
                                         From North                              From East                                           From South
                    Start Time           Thru             Left           Right            Left         U-Turn              Right             Thru          U-Turn        Int. Total
                   07:00 AM                 0               0               0                  6                   0             2             0               0                8
                   07:15 AM                 0               0               0                  0                   0             2             1               0                3
                   07:30 AM                 0               0               0                  3                   0             2             1               0                6
                   07:45 AM                 0               0               0                  5                   0             3             0               0                8
                       Total                0               0               0                 14                   0             9             2               0               25

                   08:00 AM                 0               0               0                   1                  0             1             1               0                3
                   08:15 AM                 0               0               3                   1                  0             1             0               0                5
                   08:30 AM                 0               0               0                   1                  0             0             0               0                1
                   08:45 AM                 1               0               0                   2                  0             3             0               0                6
                       Total                1               0               3                   5                  0             5             1               0               15

                Grand Total                 1               0               3               19                     0        14                  3              0               40
                  Apprch %               100                0            13.6              86.4                    0       82.4              17.6              0
                   Total %                2.5               0             7.5              47.5                    0        35                7.5              0




                                   Hancock Street                                 Grove Street                                          Grove Street
                                     From North                                    From East                                            From South
            Start Time        Thru        Left     App. Total    Right            Left     U-Turn          App. Total    Right         Thru     U-Turn      App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:00 AM
         07:00 AM            0         0             0              0              6              0                 6       2            0             0             2          8
         07:15 AM            0         0             0              0              0              0                 0       2            1             0             3          3
         07:30 AM            0         0             0              0              3              0                 3       2            1             0             3          6
         07:45 AM            0         0             0              0              5              0                 5       3            0             0             3          8
      Total Volume           0         0             0              0             14              0                14       9            2             0            11         25
      % App. Total           0         0                            0            100              0                      81.8         18.2             0
               PHF        .000      .000          .000           .000           .583           .000               .583   .750         .500          .000        .917         .781
                                                                                     PRECISION
                                                                                     D A T A
N/S: Hancock Street/ Grove Street                                                    INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                          File Name     : 91860 N
                                                                                  P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E: Grove Street                                                              Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                 Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                              Site Code     : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                        Start Date    : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                        Page No       :1


                                                                        Groups Printed- Peds and Bicycles
                                           Hancock Street                               Grove Street                                           Grove Street
                                            From North                                   From East                                             From South
                  Start Time          Thru          Left           Peds        Right            Left                      Peds        Right           Thru          Peds         Int. Total
                 07:00 AM                0              0                6                0                 0                 1            1             0              0               8
                 07:15 AM                0              0                2                0                 0                 0            0             0              0               2
                 07:30 AM                0              0                3                0                 0                 0            0             0              0               3
                 07:45 AM                0              0                2                0                 1                 0            0             0              0               3
                     Total               0              0               13                0                 1                 1            1             0              0              16

                 08:00 AM                0              0                5                0                 1                 0            0             0              1               7
                 08:15 AM                0              0                5                0                 1                 0            0             1              0               7
                 08:30 AM                1              0                4                0                 0                 0            0             0              0               5
                 08:45 AM                2              0                1                0                 1                 0            0             0              0               4
                     Total               3              0               15                0                 3                 0            0             1              1              23

              Grand Total                3              0           28                    0               4                  1          1                1             1               39
                Apprch %               9.7              0          90.3                   0              80                20        33.3             33.3          33.3
                 Total %               7.7              0          71.8                   0            10.3                2.6        2.6              2.6           2.6




                                      Hancock Street                                          Grove Street                                       Grove Street
                                        From North                                             From East                                         From South
           Start Time      Thru        Left      Peds      App. Total        Right            Left      Peds          App. Total   Right        Thru       Peds     App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
        08:00 AM           0         0         5                   5            0             1             0                 1       0           0             1           1            7
        08:15 AM           0         0         5                   5            0             1             0                 1       0           1
        08:30 AM           1         0         4                   5            0             0             0                 0       0           0          0              0           5
        08:45 AM           2         0         1                   3            0             1             0                 1       0           0          0              0           4
     Total Volume          3         0        15                  18            0             3             0                 3       0           1          1              2          23
     % App. Total       16.7         0      83.3                                0           100             0                         0          50         50
              PHF       .375      .000      .750                .900         .000          .750          .000             .750     .000        .250       .250          .500         .821
                                                                                PRECISION
                                                                                D A T A
N/S: Hancock Street/ Grove Street                                               INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                           File Name        : 91860 N
                                                                             P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E: Grove Street                                                         Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                            Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                          Site Code        : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                    Start Date       : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                    Page No          :1



                                   Hancock Street                                Grove Street                                          Grove Street
                                     From North                                   From East                                            From South
            Start Time        Thru        Left     App. Total   Right            Left     U-Turn          App. Total     Right        Thru     U-Turn             App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
         07:45 AM            3         0             3             5            104              2               111      125            8               0             133         247
         08:00 AM            4         0             4            10            106              4               120        75          15               0              90         214
         08:15 AM            7         0             7            23             97              3               123      136           25               1             162         292
         08:30 AM            4         0             4            25            116              1               142      117            8               0             125         271
      Total Volume          18         0            18            63            423             10               496      453           56               1             510        1024
      % App. Total         100         0                        12.7           85.3              2                       88.8           11             0.2
               PHF        .643      .000          .643          .630           .912           .625               .873    .833         .560            .250            .787         .877
              Cars          18         0            18            60            415             10                485     448           55               1             504        1007
            % Cars         100         0           100          95.2           98.1            100               97.8    98.9         98.2             100            98.8         98.3
    Heavy Vehicles           0         0             0             3               8             0                  11       5           1               0                6          17
  % Heavy Vehicles           0         0             0           4.8             1.9             0                 2.2     1.1         1.8               0              1.2         1.7

                                                                                 Hancock Street
                                                                             Out      In       Total
                                                                              115       18      133
                                                                                 4       0         4
                                                                              119       18      137


                                                                                       18        0
                                                                                         0       0
                                                                                       18        0
                                                                                     Thru    Left




                                                                         Peak Hour Data                                                      Out
                                                                                                                                              453

                                                                                                                                              448
                                                                                                                            Right




                                                                                                                                                 5




                                                                                        North
                                                                                                                               63

                                                                                                                               60




                                                                                                                                             Grove Street
                                                                                                                                3




                                                                        Peak Hour Begins at 07:45 AM
                                                                                                                            Left U-Turn




                                                                                                                                                 In
                                                                                                                             423

                                                                                                                             415


                                                                                                                                                  496

                                                                                                                                                  485
                                                                                                                                                   11




                                                                        Cars
                                                                                                                                8




                                                                        Heavy Vehicles
                                                                                                                                                          Total
                                                                                                                                    10

                                                                                                                                    10
                                                                                                                                     0



                                                                                                                                                           949

                                                                                                                                                           933
                                                                                                                                                             16




                                                                                Thru Right U-Turn
                                                                                  55   448     1
                                                                                    1    5     0
                                                                                  56   453     1


                                                                              433         504      937
                                                                                 8          6        14
                                                                              441         510      951
                                                                             Out         In       Total
                                                                                     Grove Street
                                                                                 PRECISION
                                                                                 D A T A
N/S: Hancock Street/ Grove Street                                                INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                    File Name        : 91860 NN
                                                                              P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E: Grove Street                                                          Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                             Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                    Site Code        : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                              Start Date       : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                              Page No          :1


                                                                    Groups Printed- Cars - Heavy Vehicles
                                        Hancock Street                       Grove Street                                           Grove Street
                                         From North                            From East                                            From South
                    Start Time           Thru             Left       Right             Left         U-Turn                  Right           Thru          U-Turn         Int. Total
                   04:00 PM                 6               0               0                86                     1        75               3               0               171
                   04:15 PM                 2               0               3                84                     0        90               5               0               184
                   04:30 PM                 7               0               1                83                     1        94               9               0               195
                   04:45 PM                 9               0               1                75                     1        81               8               0               175
                       Total               24               0               5               328                     3       340              25               0               725

                   05:00 PM                 9               1              5                103                     0       111              14               1              244
                   05:15 PM                12               1              5                104                     2       121              10               0              255
                   05:30 PM                10               2              6                121                     1       144              18               0              302
                   05:45 PM                 4               0             10                 89                     1       130              10               0              244
                       Total               35               4             26                417                     4       506              52               1             1045

              Grand Total                  59               4             31               745                      7       846              77                1            1770
                Apprch %                 93.7             6.3               4              95.1                   0.9       91.6             8.3             0.1
                  Total %                 3.3             0.2             1.8              42.1                   0.4       47.8             4.4             0.1
                    Cars                   59               4             30               737                      7       828              75                1            1741
                  % Cars                 100             100             96.8              98.9                   100       97.9            97.4            100              98.4
           Heavy Vehicles                   0               0               1                 8                     0         18               2               0              29
         % Heavy Vehicles                   0               0             3.2               1.1                     0        2.1             2.6               0              1.6




                                   Hancock Street                                 Grove Street                                         Grove Street
                                     From North                                    From East                                           From South
            Start Time        Thru        Left     App. Total    Right            Left     U-Turn          App. Total     Right       Thru     U-Turn      App. Total    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
         05:00 PM            9         1            10              5            103               0               108    111          14            1             126       244
         05:15 PM           12         1            13              5            104               2               111    121          10            0             131       255
         05:30 PM           10         2                                         121               1               128    144          18            0             162       302
         05:45 PM            4         0             4             10
     Total Volume           35         4            39              26           417              4                447     506         52             1            559      1045
      % App. Total        89.7      10.3                           5.8          93.3            0.9                       90.5        9.3           0.2
               PHF        .729      .500          .750           .650           .862           .500               .873    .878       .722          .250        .863          .865
              Cars          35         4            39              26           414              4                444     499         51             1         551         1034
           % Cars          100       100           100            100           99.3            100               99.3    98.6       98.1           100        98.6          98.9
   Heavy Vehicles            0         0             0               0              3             0                   3       7         1             0            8           11
 % Heavy Vehicles            0         0             0               0            0.7             0                 0.7     1.4       1.9             0          1.4          1.1
                                                                                 PRECISION
                                                                                 D A T A
N/S: Hancock Street/ Grove Street                                                INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                   File Name        : 91860 NN
                                                                              P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E: Grove Street                                                          Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                             Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                   Site Code        : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                             Start Date       : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                             Page No          :1


                                                                               Groups Printed- Cars
                                        Hancock Street                          Grove Street                                       Grove Street
                                         From North                              From East                                         From South
                    Start Time           Thru             Left           Right            Left               U-Turn        Right           Thru          U-Turn         Int. Total
                   04:00 PM                 6               0               0                84                    1        70               3               0               164
                   04:15 PM                 2               0               2                84                    0        89               5               0               182
                   04:30 PM                 7               0               1                81                    1        93               8               0               191
                   04:45 PM                 9               0               1                74                    1        77               8               0               170
                       Total               24               0               4               323                    3       329              24               0               707

                   05:00 PM                 9               1               5               102                    0       109              14               1              241
                   05:15 PM                12               1               5               104                    2       120              10               0              254
                   05:30 PM                10               2               6               119                    1       141              18               0              297
                   05:45 PM                 4               0              10                89                    1       129               9               0              242
                       Total               35               4              26               414                    4       499              51               1             1034

                Grand Total                59               4             30               737                      7      828             75                1             1741
                  Apprch %               93.7             6.3             3.9              95.2                   0.9      91.6            8.3             0.1
                   Total %                3.4             0.2             1.7              42.3                   0.4      47.6            4.3             0.1




                                   Hancock Street                                 Grove Street                                        Grove Street
                                     From North                                    From East                                          From South
            Start Time        Thru        Left     App. Total    Right            Left     U-Turn          App. Total    Right       Thru     U-Turn      App. Total    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
         05:00 PM            9         1            10              5            102               0              107    109          14            1             124       241
         05:15 PM           12         1            13              5            104               2              111    120          10            0             130       254
         05:30 PM           10         2                                         119               1              126    141          18            0             159       297
         05:45 PM            4         0             4             10
     Total Volume           35         4            39             26            414              4                444    499         51             1            551      1034
      % App. Total        89.7      10.3                          5.9           93.2            0.9                      90.6        9.3           0.2
               PHF        .729      .500          .750           .650           .870           .500               .881   .885       .708          .250        .866          .870
                                                                                 PRECISION
                                                                                 D A T A
N/S: Hancock Street/ Grove Street                                                INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                       File Name       : 91860 NN
                                                                              P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E: Grove Street                                                          Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                             Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                       Site Code       : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                 Start Date      : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                 Page No         :1


                                                                          Groups Printed- Heavy Vehicles
                                        Hancock Street                          Grove Street                                           Grove Street
                                         From North                              From East                                             From South
                    Start Time           Thru             Left           Right            Left         U-Turn                Right             Thru          U-Turn        Int. Total
                   04:00 PM                 0               0               0                   2                  0            5                0               0                7
                   04:15 PM                 0               0               1                   0                  0            1                0               0                2
                   04:30 PM                 0               0               0                   2                  0            1                1               0                4
                   04:45 PM                 0               0               0                   1                  0            4                0               0                5
                       Total                0               0               1                   5                  0           11                1               0               18

                   05:00 PM                 0               0               0                   1                  0               2             0               0                3
                   05:15 PM                 0               0               0                   0                  0               1             0               0                1
                   05:30 PM                 0               0               0                   2                  0               3             0               0                5
                   05:45 PM                 0               0               0                   0                  0               1             1               0                2
                       Total                0               0               0                   3                  0               7             1               0               11

                Grand Total                 0               0               1                 8                    0           18                2               0               29
                  Apprch %                  0               0            11.1              88.9                    0           90              10                0
                   Total %                  0               0             3.4              27.6                    0         62.1              6.9               0




                                   Hancock Street                                 Grove Street                                            Grove Street
                                     From North                                    From East                                              From South
            Start Time        Thru        Left     App. Total    Right            Left     U-Turn          App. Total      Right         Thru     U-Turn      App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:00 PM
         04:00 PM            0         0             0              0               2               0                  2      5            0            0             5            7
         04:15 PM            0         0             0              1
         04:30 PM            0         0             0              0              2              0                    2      1            1             0             2          4
         04:45 PM            0         0             0              0              1              0                    1      4            0             0             4          5
      Total Volume           0         0             0              1              5              0                    6     11            1             0            12         18
      % App. Total           0         0                         16.7           83.3              0                        91.7          8.3             0
               PHF        .000      .000          .000           .250           .625           .000               .750     .550         .250          .000        .600         .643
                                                                                      PRECISION
                                                                                      D A T A
N/S: Hancock Street/ Grove Street                                                     INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                         File Name     : 91860 NN
                                                                                  P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E: Grove Street                                                              Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                 Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                              Site Code     : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                        Start Date    : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                        Page No       :1


                                                                        Groups Printed- Peds and Bicycles
                                           Hancock Street                               Grove Street                                           Grove Street
                                            From North                                   From East                                             From South
                  Start Time          Thru          Left           Peds        Right            Left                      Peds        Right           Thru          Peds         Int. Total
                 04:00 PM                0              0                2                0                 0                 4            0             0              0               6
                 04:15 PM                0              0                3                0                 0                 0            0             0              0               3
                 04:30 PM                0              0                1                0                 0                 0            0             0              0               1
                 04:45 PM                1              0                1                0                 0                 0            0             1              0               3
                     Total               1              0                7                0                 0                 4            0             1              0              13

                 05:00 PM                1              0                4                0                 0                 1            1             0              0               7
                 05:15 PM                0              0                5                0                 0                 0            0             0              0               5
                 05:30 PM                0              0                2                0                 0                 0            0             0              0               2
                 05:45 PM                0              0                3                0                 0                 0            0             1              0               4
                     Total               1              0               14                0                 0                 1            1             1              0              18

              Grand Total                2              0           21                    0                 0                5          1                 2             0              31
                Apprch %               8.7              0          91.3                   0                 0             100        33.3              66.7             0
                 Total %               6.5              0          67.7                   0                 0             16.1        3.2               6.5             0




                                      Hancock Street                                          Grove Street                                       Grove Street
                                        From North                                             From East                                         From South
           Start Time      Thru        Left      Peds      App. Total        Right            Left      Peds          App. Total   Right        Thru       Peds     App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
        05:00 PM            1        0         4                   5              0             0            1                1       1            0            0           1            7
        05:15 PM            0        0         5
        05:30 PM            0        0         2                   2            0             0             0                 0       0           0          0              0           2
        05:45 PM            0        0         3                   3            0             0             0                 0       0           1          0              1           4
    Total Volume            1        0        14                  15            0             0             1                 1       1           1          0              2          18
     % App. Total         6.7        0      93.3                                0             0           100                        50          50          0
             PHF        .250      .000      .700                .750         .000          .000          .250             .250     .250        .250       .000          .500         .643
                                                                                PRECISION
                                                                                D A T A
N/S: Hancock Street/ Grove Street                                               INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                             File Name        : 91860 NN
                                                                             P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E: Grove Street                                                         Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                            Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                            Site Code        : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                      Start Date       : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                      Page No          :1



                                   Hancock Street                                Grove Street                                          Grove Street
                                     From North                                   From East                                            From South
            Start Time        Thru        Left     App. Total   Right            Left     U-Turn          App. Total     Right        Thru     U-Turn               App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
         05:00 PM            9         1            10             5            103               0              108     111              14                  1          126         244
         05:15 PM           12         1            13             5            104               2              111     121              10                  0          131         255
         05:30 PM           10         2                                        121               1              128     144              18                  0          162         302
         05:45 PM            4         0             4            10
     Total Volume           35         4            39             26           417              4               447      506           52                 1             559        1045
      % App. Total        89.7      10.3                          5.8          93.3            0.9                       90.5          9.3               0.2
               PHF        .729      .500          .750          .650           .862           .500               .873    .878         .722              .250            .863         .865
              Cars          35         4            39             26           414              4                444     499           51                 1             551        1034
           % Cars          100       100           100           100           99.3            100               99.3    98.6         98.1               100            98.6         98.9
   Heavy Vehicles            0         0             0              0              3             0                   3       7           1                 0                8          11
 % Heavy Vehicles            0         0             0              0            0.7             0                 0.7     1.4         1.9                 0              1.4         1.1

                                                                                 Hancock Street
                                                                             Out      In       Total
                                                                               77       39      116
                                                                                 1       0         1
                                                                               78       39      117


                                                                                       35        4
                                                                                         0       0
                                                                                       35        4
                                                                                     Thru    Left




                                                                         Peak Hour Data                                                        Out
                                                                                                                                                510

                                                                                                                                                503
                                                                                                                            Right




                                                                                                                                                   7




                                                                                        North
                                                                                                                               26

                                                                                                                               26




                                                                                                                                               Grove Street
                                                                                                                                0




                                                                        Peak Hour Begins at 05:00 PM
                                                                                                                            Left U-Turn




                                                                                                                                                   In
                                                                                                                             417

                                                                                                                             414


                                                                                                                                                    447

                                                                                                                                                    444




                                                                        Cars
                                                                                                                                3




                                                                                                                                                      3




                                                                        Heavy Vehicles
                                                                                                                                                            Total
                                                                                                                                     4
                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                     4


                                                                                                                                                             957

                                                                                                                                                             947
                                                                                                                                                               10




                                                                                Thru Right U-Turn
                                                                                  51   499     1
                                                                                    1    7     0
                                                                                  52   506     1


                                                                              449         551     1000
                                                                                 3          8        11
                                                                              452         559     1011
                                                                             Out         In       Total
                                                                                     Grove Street
                                                                                         PRECISION
                                                                                         D A T A
N/S: Grove Street                                                                        INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                       File Name        : 91860 O
                                                                                     P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Woodland Road                                                              Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                    Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                               Site Code        : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                         Start Date       : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                         Page No          :1


                                                                             Groups Printed- Cars - Heavy Vehicles
                                    Grove Street                           Woodland Road                       Grove Street                              Woodland Road
                                    From North                               From East                          From South                                 From West
             Start Time       Right       Thru          Left           Right      Thru        Left       Right       Thru                  Left      Right      Thru         Left      Int. Total
           07:00 AM              3          56           4                5          6              5              7          87             2         11           5          0           191
           07:15 AM              0          61           3                3          5              9             16         132             3          4           9          1           246
           07:30 AM              1          81          14                3         10              9              5          75             0         10          12          0           220
           07:45 AM              2          89           7                9          6             11             22         123             5         13          14          1           302
               Total             6         287          28               20         27             34             50         417            10         38          40          2           959

           08:00 AM              0         100           8                6          5             16             12          63              0        11          20          2           243
           08:15 AM              0          74           8                8          8             24             17         110              5        28          25          2           309
           08:30 AM              2          90          16                5         13             21             13         107              2        18          27          5           319
           08:45 AM              0          94           8                7         14             11             17          97              2         7           9          0           266
               Total             2         358          40               26         40             72             59         377              9        64          81          9          1137

      Grand Total                8        645            68             46         67           106           109            794           19        102        121         11            2096
        Apprch %               1.1        89.5          9.4             21        30.6          48.4          11.8           86.1         2.1        43.6       51.7        4.7
          Total %              0.4        30.8          3.2             2.2        3.2           5.1           5.2           37.9         0.9         4.9        5.8        0.5
            Cars                 6        630            68             45         65           100           107            785           15        102        120          10           2053
          % Cars               75         97.7         100             97.8        97           94.3          98.2           98.9        78.9        100        99.2       90.9            97.9
   Heavy Vehicles                2          15            0               1          2             6             2              9           4           0          1          1             43
 % Heavy Vehicles              25          2.3            0             2.2          3           5.7           1.8            1.1        21.1           0        0.8        9.1             2.1




                               Grove Street                             Woodland Road                                  Grove Street                         Woodland Road
                               From North                                 From East                                     From South                            From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total        Right     Thru    Left App. Total          Right        Thru     Left   App. Total   Right    Thru    Left App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
    07:45 AM         2       89       7      98       9                     6       11           26         22       123          5         150       13      14       1         28       302
     08:00 AM        0     100        8     108       6                     5       16           27         12         63         0          75       11      20       2         33       243
     08:15 AM        0       74       8      82       8                     8       24           40         17       110          5         132       28      25       2         55       309
     08:30 AM        2       90     16      108       5                    13       21           39         13       107          2         122       18      27       5         50       319
 Total Volume        4     353       39     396      28                    32       72          132         64       403         12         479       70      86      10        166      1173
  % App. Total       1    89.1      9.8            21.2                  24.2     54.5                    13.4      84.1        2.5                 42.2    51.8       6
           PHF    .500    .883    .609     .917    .778                  .615     .750         .825       .727      .819       .600        .798     .625    .796    .500       .755       .919
           Cars      3     344      39      386      28                    31       69          128         63       400          9         472       70      86      10        166      1152
       % Cars     75.0    97.5     100     97.5     100                  96.9     95.8         97.0       98.4      99.3       75.0        98.5      100     100     100        100       98.2
 Heavy Vehicles      1        9       0      10       0                     1        3            4          1          3         3            7       0       0       0          0         21
 % Heavy Vehicles 25.0      2.5       0      2.5      0                   3.1      4.2          3.0        1.6        0.7      25.0          1.5       0       0       0          0        1.8
                                                                                         PRECISION
                                                                                         D A T A
N/S: Grove Street                                                                        INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                       File Name        : 91860 O
                                                                                     P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Woodland Road                                                              Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                    Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                               Site Code        : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                         Start Date       : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                         Page No          :1


                                                                                     Groups Printed- Cars
                                    Grove Street                           Woodland Road                      Grove Street                               Woodland Road
                                    From North                               From East                        From South                                   From West
             Start Time       Right       Thru          Left           Right      Thru       Left       Right       Thru                   Left      Right      Thru         Left      Int. Total
           07:00 AM              2          53           4               4           6              4              7          85              1        11           4          0           181
           07:15 AM              0          61           3               3           4              9             15         129              3         4           9          0           240
           07:30 AM              1          80          14               3          10              7              5          75              0        10          12          0           217
           07:45 AM              1          82           7               9           6             10             22         120              3        13          14          1           288
               Total             4         276          28              19          26             30             49         409              7        38          39          1           926

           08:00 AM              0         100           8               6           5             16             11          63              0        11          20          2           242
           08:15 AM              0          73           8               8           8             22             17         110              4        28          25          2           305
           08:30 AM              2          89          16               5          12             21             13         107              2        18          27          5           317
           08:45 AM              0          92           8               7          14             11             17          96              2         7           9          0           263
               Total             2         354          40              26          39             70             58         376              8        64          81          9          1127

        Grand Total              6        630            68             45         65           100           107            785            15        102       120          10           2053
          Apprch %             0.9        89.5          9.7            21.4        31           47.6          11.8           86.5          1.7         44       51.7         4.3
           Total %             0.3        30.7          3.3             2.2        3.2           4.9           5.2           38.2          0.7          5        5.8         0.5




                               Grove Street                             Woodland Road                                  Grove Street                         Woodland Road
                               From North                                 From East                                     From South                            From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total        Right     Thru    Left App. Total          Right        Thru     Left   App. Total   Right    Thru    Left App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
    07:45 AM         1      82       7       90       9                     6      10            25         22       120          3         145       13      14       1         28       288
    08:00 AM         0     100       8      108       6                     5      16            27         11        63          0          74       11      20       2         33       242
    08:15 AM         0      73       8       81       8                     8      22            38         17       110          4         131       28      25       2         55       305
    08:30 AM         2      89      16      107       5                    12      21            38         13       107          2         122       18      27       5         50       317
 Total Volume        3     344      39      386      28                    31      69           128         63       400          9         472       70      86      10        166      1152
 % App. Total      0.8    89.1    10.1             21.9                  24.2    53.9                     13.3      84.7        1.9                 42.2    51.8       6
          PHF    .375     .860    .609     .894    .778                  .646    .784          .842       .716      .833       .563        .814     .625    .796    .500       .755       .909
                                                                                            PRECISION
                                                                                            D A T A
N/S: Grove Street                                                                           INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                          File Name        : 91860 O
                                                                                       P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Woodland Road                                                                Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                      Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                     Site Code        : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                               Start Date       : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                               Page No          :1


                                                                                  Groups Printed- Heavy Vehicles
                                    Grove Street                             Woodland Road                       Grove Street                              Woodland Road
                                    From North                                 From East                         From South                                  From West
             Start Time       Right       Thru          Left             Right      Thru        Left      Right        Thru                  Left      Right      Thru             Left       Int. Total
           07:00 AM              1           3               0              1           0             1              0            2             1             0           1          0              10
           07:15 AM              0           0               0              0           1             0              1            3             0             0           0          1               6
           07:30 AM              0           1               0              0           0             2              0            0             0             0           0          0               3
           07:45 AM              1           7               0              0           0             1              0            3             2             0           0          0              14
               Total             2          11               0              1           1             4              1            8             3             0           1          1              33

           08:00 AM              0            0              0              0           0             0              1            0             0             0           0          0               1
           08:15 AM              0            1              0              0           0             2              0            0             1             0           0          0               4
           08:30 AM              0            1              0              0           1             0              0            0             0             0           0          0               2
           08:45 AM              0            2              0              0           0             0              0            1             0             0           0          0               3
               Total             0            4              0              0           1             2              1            1             1             0           0          0              10

        Grand Total              2         15                0              1          2             6             2              9           4               0            1         1              43
          Apprch %            11.8        88.2               0           11.1       22.2          66.7          13.3             60        26.7               0          50        50
           Total %             4.7        34.9               0            2.3        4.7            14           4.7           20.9         9.3               0          2.3       2.3




                               Grove Street                               Woodland Road                                  Grove Street                             Woodland Road
                               From North                                   From East                                     From South                                From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total          Right     Thru    Left App. Total          Right        Thru     Left   App. Total   Right        Thru    Left App. Total    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:00 AM
    07:00 AM         1       3       0        4       1                       0        1             2         0         2          1           3        0           1        0           1         10
    07:15 AM         0       0       0        0       0                       1        0             1         1         3          0           4        0           0        1           1          6
    07:30 AM         0       1       0        1       0                       0        2             2         0         0          0           0        0           0        0           0          3
    07:45 AM         1       7       0        8       0                       0        1             1         0         3          2           5        0           0        0           0         14
 Total Volume        2      11       0       13       1                       1        4             6         1         8          3          12        0           1        1           2         33
 % App. Total    15.4     84.6       0             16.7                    16.7     66.7                     8.3      66.7         25                    0          50       50
          PHF    .500     .393    .000     .406    .250                    .250     .500         .750       .250      .667       .375        .600     .000        .250     .250      .500        .589
                                                                                 PRECISION
                                                                                 D A T A
N/S: Grove Street                                                                INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                               File Name     : 91860 O
                                                                              P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Woodland Road                                                       Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                             Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                               Site Code     : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                         Start Date    : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                         Page No       :1


                                                                       Groups Printed- Peds and Bicycles
                              Grove Street                       Woodland Road                         Grove Street                                      Woodland Road
                              From North                           From East                           From South                                         From West
       Start Time    Right    Thru      Left    Peds     Right    Thru      Left    Peds     Right     Thru      Left              Peds         Right     Thru     Left     Peds         Int. Total
      07:00 AM          0        1        0        0         0       0           0            0           0         2        0          0          0           1     0          0                4
      07:15 AM          0        0        0        0         0       0           0            1           0         0        0          0          0           0     0          1                2
      07:30 AM          1        0        0        5         0       1           0            0           0         0        0          0          0           1     0          5               13
      07:45 AM          0        1        0        0         0       0           0            0           0         0        0          0          0           0     0          0                1
          Total         1        2        0        5         0       1           0            1           0         2        0          0          0           2     0          6               20

      08:00 AM          0        1        0        3         0       0           0            1           0         0        0          1          0           0     0         1                 7
      08:15 AM          0        1        0        9         0       1           0            1           0         0        0          0          0           0     0        14                26
      08:30 AM          0        1        0        2         0       0           0            0           0         0        0          0          0           1     0         8                12
      08:45 AM          0        1        0        0         0       0           0            1           0         0        0          0          0           0     0         0                 2
          Total         0        4        0       14         0       1           0            3           0         0        0          1          0           1     0        23                47

   Grand Total          1        6        0      19          0       2           0         4              0         2        0        1            0         3       0       29                 67
     Apprch %         3.8     23.1        0     73.1         0    33.3           0      66.7              0      66.7        0     33.3            0       9.4       0      90.6
      Total %         1.5        9        0     28.4         0       3           0         6              0         3        0      1.5            0       4.5       0      43.3




                            Grove Street                       Woodland Road                                      Grove Street                            Woodland Road
                             From North                           From East                                        From South                                From West
   Start Time Right Thru        Left Peds App. Total Right   Thru    Left Peds       App. Total   Right       Thru    Left Peds   App. Total   Right    Thru    Left Peds   App. Total    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
  07:30 AM      1       0     0     5        6     0  1    0    0                           1        0    0            0      0          0        0        1      0    5          6            13
  07:45 AM      0       1     0     0        1     0  0    0    0                           0        0    0            0      0          0        0        0      0    0          0             1
  08:00 AM      0       1     0     3        4     0  0    0    1                           1        0    0            0      1          1        0        0      0    1          1             7
  08:15 AM      0       1     0     9      10      0  1    0    1                           2        0    0            0      0          0        0        0      0   14         14            26
 Total Volume   1       3     0    17      21      0  2    0    2                           4        0    0            0      1          1        0        1      0   20         21            47
 % App. Total 4.8 14.3        0    81              0 50    0   50                                    0    0            0    100                   0      4.8      0 95.2
        PHF .250 .750 .000 .472          .525 .000 .500 .000 .500                      .500       .000 .000         .000   .250     .250       .000     .250   .000 .357      .375          .452
                                                                                              PRECISION
                                                                                              D A T A
N/S: Grove Street                                                                             INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                                  File Name       : 91860 O
                                                                                           P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Woodland Road                                                                    Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                          Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                               Site Code       : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                                         Start Date      : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                                         Page No         :1



                               Grove Street                                    Woodland Road                               Grove Street                                Woodland Road
                               From North                                        From East                                  From South                                   From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total                Right    Thru    Left App. Total         Right      Thru     Left   App. Total      Right        Thru    Left App. Total       Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
    07:45 AM         2       89       7      98       9                           6      11            26         22       123        5         150          13           14               1    28       302
     08:00 AM        0     100        8     108       6                           5      16            27         12         63       0          75          11           20               2    33       243
     08:15 AM        0       74       8      82       8                           8      24            40         17       110        5         132          28           25               2    55       309
     08:30 AM        2       90     16      108       5                          13      21            39         13       107        2         122          18           27               5    50       319
 Total Volume        4     353       39     396      28                          32      72           132         64       403       12         479          70           86              10   166      1173
  % App. Total       1    89.1      9.8            21.2                        24.2    54.5                     13.4      84.1      2.5                    42.2         51.8               6
           PHF    .500    .883    .609     .917    .778                        .615    .750          .825       .727      .819     .600        .798        .625         .796            .500   .755      .919
           Cars      3     344      39      386      28                          31      69           128         63       400        9         472          70           86              10    166     1152
       % Cars     75.0    97.5     100     97.5     100                        96.9    95.8          97.0       98.4      99.3     75.0        98.5         100          100             100    100      98.2
 Heavy Vehicles      1        9       0      10       0                           1       3             4          1          3       3            7          0            0               0      0        21
 % Heavy Vehicles 25.0      2.5       0      2.5      0                         3.1     4.2           3.0        1.6        0.7    25.0          1.5          0            0               0      0       1.8

                                                                                                   Grove Street
                                                                                           Out         In       Total
                                                                                            438         386      824
                                                                                               3         10        13
                                                                                            441         396      837


                                                                                                  3  344         39
                                                                                                  1     9          0
                                                                                                  4  353         39
                                                                                              Right Thru       Left




                                                                                       Peak Hour Data
                                                  209
                                                     5
                                                  214
                                                 Total




                                                                                                                                                               Out
                                                           10
                                                             0
                                                           10




                                                                                                                                                                189

                                                                                                                                                                188
                                                                                                                                             Right Thru
                                                         Left




                                                                                                                                                                   1
                                   Woodland Road




                                                                                                                                                                   Woodland Road


                                                                                                      North
                                                                                                                                                28

                                                                                                                                                28
                                                                                                                                                 0
                                           166
                                             0
                                           166




                                                                                      Peak Hour Begins at 07:45 AM
                                                                 86
                                                                   0
                                                                 86
                                                         Right Thru
                                          In




                                                                                                                                                                         In
                                                                                                                                                                          132

                                                                                                                                                                          128
                                                                                                                                                     32

                                                                                                                                                     31




                                                                                      Cars
                                                                                                                                                       1




                                                                                                                                                                            4




                                                                                      Heavy Vehicles
                                                            70
                                                             0
                                                            70




                                                                                                                                             Left
                                   43
                                     5
                                   48
                                 Out




                                                                                                                                                                                Total
                                                                                                                                               72

                                                                                                                                               69
                                                                                                                                                 3



                                                                                                                                                                                 321

                                                                                                                                                                                 316
                                                                                                                                                                                    5




                                                                                              Left Thru Right
                                                                                                  9 400    63
                                                                                                  3    3    1
                                                                                                12  403    64


                                                                                            483         472      955
                                                                                             12           7        19
                                                                                            495         479      974
                                                                                           Out         In       Total
                                                                                                   Grove Street
                                                                                         PRECISION
                                                                                         D A T A
N/S: Grove Street                                                                        INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                       File Name         : 91860 OO
                                                                                     P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Woodland Road                                                              Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                    Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                               Site Code         : 10865.00
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                        Start Date        : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                         Page No           :1


                                                                             Groups Printed- Cars - Heavy Vehicles
                                    Grove Street                           Woodland Road                       Grove Street                              Woodland Road
                                    From North                               From East                          From South                                 From West
             Start Time       Right       Thru          Left           Right      Thru        Left       Right       Thru                  Left      Right      Thru          Left      Int. Total
           04:00 PM              0          70          12               10         13              9              9          66             6          9            18         0           222
           04:15 PM              2          81          10                8         12              5              6          85             2          5            20         1           237
           04:30 PM              4          65           8               10         10              8              9          81             7          9            14         0           225
           04:45 PM              3          67          10                5          9              6              9          75             3          7            20         2           216
               Total             9         283          40               33         44             28             33         307            18         30            72         3           900

           05:00 PM              3          90           7               11         14             11             13          95             3         14            17         2           280
           05:15 PM              2         101          15               11          9              9             21         104             7          6            26         1           312
           05:30 PM              2         101           7                8         13              8             21         116             7         14            30         3           330
           05:45 PM              1          81          11               10         10             15             16         102            11          7            29         3           296
               Total             8         373          40               40         46             43             71         417            28         41           102         9          1218

      Grand Total              17         656          80               73          90            71          104            724           46         71        174            12          2118
        Apprch %               2.3        87.1        10.6             31.2       38.5          30.3          11.9           82.8         5.3        27.6       67.7          4.7
          Total %              0.8         31          3.8              3.4        4.2            3.4          4.9           34.2         2.2         3.4        8.2           0.6
            Cars               17         650           79              69          90            71          103            707           43         69        172            12          2082
          % Cars              100         99.1        98.8             94.5        100           100            99           97.7        93.5        97.2       98.9          100           98.3
   Heavy Vehicles                0           6           1                4          0              0            1             17           3           2          2             0           36
 % Heavy Vehicles                0         0.9         1.2              5.5          0              0            1            2.3         6.5         2.8        1.1             0           1.7




                               Grove Street                             Woodland Road                                  Grove Street                         Woodland Road
                               From North                                 From East                                     From South                            From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total        Right     Thru    Left App. Total          Right        Thru     Left   App. Total   Right    Thru    Left App. Total    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
    05:00 PM          3      90       7     100      11                    14       11           36         13         95         3         111       14       17         2       33       280
     05:15 PM         2    101      15      118      11                     9        9           29         21       104          7         132        6       26         1       33       312
     05:30 PM         2    101        7     110       8                    13        8           29         21       116          7         144       14      30          3       47       330
     05:45 PM         1      81     11       93      10                    10       15           35         16       102         11         129        7       29         3       39       296
 Total Volume         8    373       40     421      40                    46       43          129         71       417         28         516       41     102          9      152      1218
  % App. Total      1.9   88.6      9.5              31                  35.7     33.3                    13.8      80.8        5.4                   27    67.1        5.9
           PHF    .667    .923    .667     .892    .909                  .821     .717         .896       .845      .899       .636        .896     .732    .850      .750      .809       .923
           Cars       8    371      40      419      36                    46       43          125         70       411         27         508       41     100          9      150      1202
       % Cars      100    99.5     100     99.5    90.0                   100      100         96.9       98.6      98.6       96.4        98.4      100    98.0       100      98.7       98.7
 Heavy Vehicles       0       2       0        2      4                     0        0             4         1          6         1            8       0        2         0         2        16
 % Heavy Vehicles     0     0.5       0      0.5   10.0                     0        0           3.1       1.4        1.4       3.6          1.6       0      2.0         0       1.3       1.3
                                                                                         PRECISION
                                                                                         D A T A
N/S: Grove Street                                                                        INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                       File Name        : 91860 OO
                                                                                     P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Woodland Road                                                              Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                    Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                               Site Code        : 10865.00
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                        Start Date       : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                         Page No          :1


                                                                                     Groups Printed- Cars
                                    Grove Street                           Woodland Road                      Grove Street                               Woodland Road
                                    From North                               From East                        From South                                   From West
             Start Time       Right       Thru          Left           Right      Thru       Left       Right       Thru                   Left      Right      Thru         Left      Int. Total
           04:00 PM              0          67          11              10          13              9              9          60             5          9           18         0           211
           04:15 PM              2          81          10               8          12              5              6          84             2          5           20         1           236
           04:30 PM              4          64           8              10          10              8              9          81             6          8           14         0           222
           04:45 PM              3          67          10               5           9              6              9          71             3          6           20         2           211
               Total             9         279          39              33          44             28             33         296            16         28           72         3           880

           05:00 PM              3          89           7              11          14             11             13          92             3         14           17         2           276
           05:15 PM              2         101          15              11           9              9             21         103             7          6           26         1           311
           05:30 PM              2         100           7               7          13              8             20         115             6         14           29         3           324
           05:45 PM              1          81          11               7          10             15             16         101            11          7           28         3           291
               Total             8         371          40              36          46             43             70         411            27         41          100         9          1202

        Grand Total            17         650           79              69         90            71           103            707           43         69           172       12           2082
          Apprch %             2.3        87.1        10.6              30        39.1          30.9          12.1           82.9            5       27.3            68      4.7
           Total %             0.8        31.2         3.8              3.3        4.3           3.4           4.9            34           2.1        3.3           8.3      0.6




                               Grove Street                             Woodland Road                                  Grove Street                         Woodland Road
                               From North                                 From East                                     From South                            From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total        Right     Thru    Left App. Total          Right        Thru     Left   App. Total   Right    Thru    Left App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
    05:00 PM         3      89       7       99      11                    14      11            36         13        92          3         108       14      17         2       33       276
    05:15 PM         2     101      15      118      11                     9       9            29         21       103          7         131        6      26         1       33       311
    05:30 PM         2     100       7      109       7                    13       8            28         20       115          6         141       14      29         3       46       324
    05:45 PM         1      81      11       93       7                    10      15            32         16       101         11         128        7      28         3       38       291
 Total Volume        8     371      40      419      36                    46      43           125         70       411         27         508       41     100         9      150      1202
 % App. Total      1.9    88.5     9.5             28.8                  36.8    34.4                     13.8      80.9        5.3                 27.3    66.7         6
          PHF    .667     .918    .667     .888    .818                  .821    .717          .868       .833      .893       .614        .901     .732    .862      .750     .815       .927
                                                                                            PRECISION
                                                                                            D A T A
N/S: Grove Street                                                                           INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                           File Name        : 91860 OO
                                                                                       P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Woodland Road                                                                Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                      Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                      Site Code        : 10865.00
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                               Start Date       : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                                Page No          :1


                                                                                  Groups Printed- Heavy Vehicles
                                    Grove Street                             Woodland Road                       Grove Street                               Woodland Road
                                    From North                                 From East                         From South                                   From West
             Start Time       Right       Thru          Left             Right      Thru        Left      Right        Thru                   Left      Right      Thru             Left       Int. Total
           04:00 PM              0            3              1              0           0             0              0             6             1             0           0          0              11
           04:15 PM              0            0              0              0           0             0              0             1             0             0           0          0               1
           04:30 PM              0            1              0              0           0             0              0             0             1             1           0          0               3
           04:45 PM              0            0              0              0           0             0              0             4             0             1           0          0               5
               Total             0            4              1              0           0             0              0            11             2             2           0          0              20

           05:00 PM              0            1              0              0           0             0              0             3             0             0           0          0               4
           05:15 PM              0            0              0              0           0             0              0             1             0             0           0          0               1
           05:30 PM              0            1              0              1           0             0              1             1             1             0           1          0               6
           05:45 PM              0            0              0              3           0             0              0             1             0             0           1          0               5
               Total             0            2              0              4           0             0              1             6             1             0           2          0              16

        Grand Total              0           6           1                  4           0             0               1           17           3            2               2         0              36
          Apprch %               0        85.7        14.3               100            0             0             4.8           81        14.3          50              50          0
           Total %               0        16.7         2.8               11.1           0             0             2.8         47.2         8.3          5.6             5.6         0




                               Grove Street                               Woodland Road                                   Grove Street                             Woodland Road
                               From North                                   From East                                      From South                                From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total          Right     Thru    Left App. Total          Right         Thru     Left   App. Total   Right        Thru    Left App. Total    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:00 PM
    04:00 PM         0       3       1        4       0                       0        0             0         0         6           1           7        0           0        0           0         11
    04:15 PM         0       0       0        0       0                       0        0             0         0         1           0           1        0           0        0           0          1
    04:30 PM         0       1       0        1       0                       0        0             0         0         0           1           1        1           0        0           1          3
    04:45 PM         0       0       0        0       0                       0        0             0         0         4           0           4        1           0        0           1          5
 Total Volume        0       4       1        5       0                       0        0             0         0        11           2          13        2           0        0           2         20
 % App. Total        0      80      20                0                       0        0                       0      84.6        15.4                  100           0        0
          PHF    .000     .333    .250     .313    .000                    .000     .000         .000       .000      .458        .500        .464     .500        .000     .000      .500        .455
                                                                                 PRECISION
                                                                                 D A T A
N/S: Grove Street                                                                INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                               File Name     : 91860 OO
                                                                              P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Woodland Road                                                       Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                             Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                               Site Code     : 10865.00
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                        Start Date    : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                         Page No       :1


                                                                       Groups Printed- Peds and Bicycles
                              Grove Street                       Woodland Road                         Grove Street                                      Woodland Road
                              From North                           From East                           From South                                         From West
       Start Time    Right    Thru      Left    Peds     Right    Thru      Left    Peds     Right     Thru      Left              Peds         Right     Thru     Left     Peds         Int. Total
      04:00 PM          0        0        0        2         0       0           0            0           0         2        0          0          0           0     0          0                4
      04:15 PM          0        0        0        0         0       0           0            0           0         1        0          0          0           0     0          1                2
      04:30 PM          0        0        0        2         0       0           0            0           0         0        0          0          0           0     0          1                3
      04:45 PM          0        0        0        0         0       0           0            0           0         0        0          0          0           0     0          1                1
          Total         0        0        0        4         0       0           0            0           0         3        0          0          0           0     0          3               10

      05:00 PM          0        1        0        0         0       2           0            0           0         0        0          0          0           0     0         2                 5
      05:15 PM          0        0        0        0         0       0           0            3           0         1        0          0          0           0     0         2                 6
      05:30 PM          0        0        0        0         0       0           0            0           0         0        0          0          0           1     0         1                 2
      05:45 PM          0        0        1        3         0       0           0            0           0         0        0          0          0           0     0         6                10
          Total         0        1        1        3         0       2           0            3           0         1        0          0          0           1     0        11                23

   Grand Total          0        1        1        7         0       2           0          3             0         4        0          0          0         1       0       14                 33
     Apprch %           0     11.1     11.1     77.8         0     40            0        60              0      100         0          0          0       6.7       0      93.3
      Total %           0        3        3     21.2         0     6.1           0        9.1             0      12.1        0          0          0         3       0      42.4




                            Grove Street                       Woodland Road                                      Grove Street                            Woodland Road
                             From North                           From East                                        From South                                From West
   Start Time Right Thru        Left Peds App. Total Right   Thru    Left Peds       App. Total   Right       Thru    Left Peds   App. Total   Right    Thru    Left Peds   App. Total    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
  05:00 PM      0       1     0     0        1     0  2    0    0                           2        0    0            0      0          0        0        0      0    2          2             5
  05:15 PM      0       0     0     0        0     0  0    0    3                           3        0    1            0      0          1        0        0      0    2          2             6
  05:30 PM      0       0     0     0        0     0  0    0    0                           0        0    0            0      0          0        0        1      0    1          2             2
  05:45 PM      0       0     1     3        4     0  0    0    0                           0        0    0            0      0          0        0        0      0    6          6            10
 Total Volume   0       1     1     3        5     0  2    0    3                           5        0    1            0      0          1        0        1      0   11         12            23
 % App. Total   0     20     20    60              0 40    0   60                                    0 100             0      0                   0      8.3      0 91.7
        PHF .000 .250 .250 .250          .313 .000 .250 .000 .250                      .417       .000 .250         .000   .000     .250       .000     .250   .000 .458      .500          .575
                                                                                              PRECISION
                                                                                              D A T A
N/S: Grove Street                                                                             INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                                  File Name        : 91860 OO
                                                                                           P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Woodland Road                                                                    Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                          Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                               Site Code        : 10865.00
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                                        Start Date       : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                                         Page No          :1



                               Grove Street                                    Woodland Road                               Grove Street                                Woodland Road
                               From North                                        From East                                  From South                                   From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total                Right    Thru    Left App. Total         Right      Thru     Left   App. Total      Right        Thru    Left App. Total         Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
    05:00 PM          3      90       7     100      11                          14      11            36         13         95       3         111          14            17               2    33        280
     05:15 PM         2    101      15      118      11                           9       9            29         21       104        7         132           6            26               1    33        312
     05:30 PM         2    101        7     110       8                          13       8            29         21       116        7         144          14           30                3    47        330
     05:45 PM         1      81     11       93      10                          10      15            35         16       102       11         129           7            29               3    39        296
 Total Volume         8    373       40     421      40                          46      43           129         71       417       28         516          41          102                9   152       1218
  % App. Total      1.9   88.6      9.5              31                        35.7    33.3                     13.8      80.8      5.4                      27         67.1              5.9
           PHF    .667    .923    .667     .892    .909                        .821    .717          .896       .845      .899     .636        .896        .732         .850            .750    .809       .923
           Cars       8    371      40      419      36                          46      43           125         70       411       27         508          41          100                9    150      1202
       % Cars      100    99.5     100     99.5    90.0                         100     100          96.9       98.6      98.6     96.4        98.4         100         98.0             100    98.7       98.7
 Heavy Vehicles       0       2       0        2      4                           0       0              4         1          6       1            8          0             2               0       2        16
 % Heavy Vehicles     0     0.5       0      0.5   10.0                           0       0            3.1       1.4        1.4     3.6          1.6          0           2.0               0     1.3       1.3

                                                                                                   Grove Street
                                                                                           Out         In       Total
                                                                                            456         419      875
                                                                                             10           2        12
                                                                                            466         421      887


                                                                                                  8  371         40
                                                                                                  0     2          0
                                                                                                  8  373         40
                                                                                              Right Thru       Left




                                                                                       Peak Hour Data
                                                  231
                                                     3
                                                  234
                                                 Total




                                                                                                                                                               Out
                                                             9
                                                             0
                                                             9




                                                                                                                                                                213

                                                                                                                                                                210
                                                                                                                                             Right Thru
                                                         Left




                                                                                                                                                                   3
                                   Woodland Road




                                                                                                                                                                   Woodland Road


                                                                                                      North
                                                                                                                                                40

                                                                                                                                                36
                                                                                                                                                 4
                                           150
                                             2
                                           152




                                                                                      Peak Hour Begins at 05:00 PM
                                                                100
                                                                   2
                                                                102
                                                         Right Thru
                                          In




                                                                                                                                                                         In
                                                                                                                                                                          129

                                                                                                                                                                          125
                                                                                                                                                     46

                                                                                                                                                     46




                                                                                      Cars
                                                                                                                                                       0




                                                                                                                                                                            4




                                                                                      Heavy Vehicles
                                                            41
                                                             0
                                                            41




                                                                                                                                             Left
                                   81
                                     1
                                   82
                                 Out




                                                                                                                                                                                Total
                                                                                                                                               43

                                                                                                                                               43
                                                                                                                                                 0



                                                                                                                                                                                 342

                                                                                                                                                                                 335
                                                                                                                                                                                    7




                                                                                              Left Thru Right
                                                                                                27  411    70
                                                                                                  1    6    1
                                                                                                28  417    71


                                                                                            455         508      963
                                                                                               2          8        10
                                                                                            457         516      973
                                                                                           Out         In       Total
                                                                                                   Grove Street
                                                                                          PRECISION
                                                                                          D A T A
N/S: Auburn Street/ Grove Street                                                          INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                           File Name          : 91860 P
                                                                                      P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Auburn Street/ Central Street                                               Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                     Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                    Site Code          : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                              Start Date         : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                              Page No            :1


                                                                               Groups Printed- Cars - Heavy Vehicles
                                    Auburn Street                            Auburn Street                       Grove Street                               Central Street
                                     From North                               From East                           From South                                 From West
             Start Time       Right       Thru          Left           Right       Thru         Left       Right       Thru                 Left      Right        Thru            Left        Int. Total
           07:00 AM              5          50          19              18            6              0           23            68              1             1            21         5             217
           07:15 AM              1          69          41              30           12             10           15            96              3             0            27         1             305
           07:30 AM              8          67          25              29           12              7           32           107              1             2            32         6             328
           07:45 AM              3          86          28              34           14             13           41            80              3             4            21         1             328
               Total            17         272         113             111           44             30          111           351              8             7           101        13            1178

           08:00 AM              4          75          46              36           14             15             26         103             4          5                32         5             365
           08:15 AM              7          75          26              35           10             12             25          84             4          3                25         6             312
           08:30 AM              2          95          15              37           12             19             18          92             3          3                27         4             327
           08:45 AM              4          85          17              34           11             15             21          89             2          2                26         6             312
               Total            17         330         104             142           47             61             90         368            13         13               110        21            1316

      Grand Total              34         602         217              253         91             91           201            719           21          20           211           34             2494
        Apprch %                 4        70.6        25.4             58.2       20.9           20.9          21.4           76.4         2.2          7.5          79.6         12.8
          Total %              1.4        24.1         8.7             10.1        3.6            3.6           8.1           28.8         0.8          0.8           8.5          1.4
            Cars               34         583         213              253         91              90          197            709           20          20           208            33            2451
          % Cars              100         96.8        98.2             100        100            98.9            98           98.6        95.2         100           98.6         97.1             98.3
   Heavy Vehicles                0          19           4                0          0              1             4             10           1            0             3            1              43
 % Heavy Vehicles                0         3.2         1.8                0          0            1.1             2            1.4         4.8            0           1.4          2.9              1.7




                               Auburn Street                              Auburn Street                                 Grove Street                             Central Street
                                From North                                 From East                                     From South                               From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total        Right      Thru     Left    App. Total      Right        Thru     Left   App. Total   Right       Thru      Left   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
    07:30 AM          8      67      25     100      29                    12        7            48          32      107          1         140        2          32         6         40        328
     07:45 AM         3     86       28     117      34                    14       13            61         41        80          3         124        4           21        1         26        328
     08:00 AM         4      75     46      125      36                    14       15            65          26      103          4         133        5           32        5         42        365
     08:15 AM         7      75      26     108      35                    10       12            57          25        84         4         113        3           25        6         34        312
 Total Volume        22    303     125      450     134                    50       47           231        124       374         12         510       14         110        18        142       1333
  % App. Total      4.9   67.3    27.8               58                  21.6     20.3                     24.3      73.3        2.4                  9.9        77.5      12.7
           PHF    .688    .881    .679     .900    .931                  .893     .783          .888       .756      .874       .750        .911     .700        .859      .750       .845        .913
           Cars      22    296     122      440     134                    50       46           230        122       369         11         502       14         109        17        140       1312
       % Cars      100    97.7    97.6     97.8     100                   100     97.9          99.6       98.4      98.7       91.7        98.4      100        99.1      94.4       98.6        98.4
 Heavy Vehicles       0       7       3       10      0                     0        1             1           2         5         1            8       0            1        1           2         21
 % Heavy Vehicles     0     2.3     2.4      2.2      0                     0      2.1           0.4         1.6       1.3       8.3          1.6       0          0.9      5.6         1.4        1.6
                                                                                          PRECISION
                                                                                          D A T A
N/S: Auburn Street/ Grove Street                                                          INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                           File Name          : 91860 P
                                                                                      P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Auburn Street/ Central Street                                               Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                     Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                    Site Code          : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                              Start Date         : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                              Page No            :1


                                                                                       Groups Printed- Cars
                                    Auburn Street                            Auburn Street                      Grove Street                                Central Street
                                     From North                               From East                         From South                                   From West
             Start Time       Right       Thru          Left           Right       Thru        Left       Right       Thru                  Left      Right        Thru            Left        Int. Total
           07:00 AM              5          47          19              18            6              0           22            67              1             1           19          5             210
           07:15 AM              1          67          40              30           12             10           14            94              3             0           27          1             299
           07:30 AM              8          67          25              29           12              7           32           106              1             2           32          6             327
           07:45 AM              3          83          26              34           14             12           40            78              3             4           21          1             319
               Total            17         264         110             111           44             29          108           345              8             7           99         13            1155

           08:00 AM              4          73          45              36           14             15             26         101             3          5               31          5             358
           08:15 AM              7          73          26              35           10             12             24          84             4          3               25          5             308
           08:30 AM              2          91          15              37           12             19             18          90             3          3               27          4             321
           08:45 AM              4          82          17              34           11             15             21          89             2          2               26          6             309
               Total            17         319         103             142           47             61             89         364            12         13              109         20            1296

        Grand Total            34         583         213              253          91            90           197            709            20         20           208           33             2451
          Apprch %             4.1        70.2        25.7             58.3         21           20.7          21.3           76.6          2.2         7.7          79.7         12.6
           Total %             1.4        23.8         8.7             10.3         3.7           3.7             8           28.9          0.8         0.8           8.5          1.3




                               Auburn Street                              Auburn Street                                 Grove Street                             Central Street
                                From North                                 From East                                     From South                               From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total        Right      Thru     Left    App. Total      Right        Thru     Left   App. Total   Right       Thru      Left   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
    07:30 AM         8      67      25      100      29                    12        7            48         32       106          1         139        2          32        6          40        327
    07:45 AM         3      83      26      112      34                    14       12            60         40        78          3         121        4          21        1          26        319
    08:00 AM         4      73      45      122      36                    14       15            65         26       101          3         130        5          31        5          41        358
    08:15 AM         7      73      26      106      35                    10       12            57         24        84          4         112        3          25        5          33        308
 Total Volume      22      296     122      440     134                    50       46           230        122       369         11         502       14         109       17         140       1312
 % App. Total        5    67.3    27.7             58.3                  21.7       20                     24.3      73.5        2.2                   10        77.9     12.1
          PHF    .688     .892    .678     .902    .931                  .893     .767          .885       .763      .870       .688        .903     .700        .852     .708        .854        .916
                                                                                             PRECISION
                                                                                             D A T A
N/S: Auburn Street/ Grove Street                                                             INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                          File Name          : 91860 P
                                                                                        P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Auburn Street/ Central Street                                                 Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                       Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                      Site Code          : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                                Start Date         : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                                Page No            :1


                                                                                   Groups Printed- Heavy Vehicles
                                    Auburn Street                              Auburn Street                      Grove Street                                Central Street
                                     From North                                 From East                         From South                                   From West
             Start Time       Right       Thru          Left             Right       Thru        Left      Right        Thru                  Left      Right        Thru            Left        Int. Total
           07:00 AM              0            3              0              0            0             0              1            1             0             0           2            0               7
           07:15 AM              0            2              1              0            0             0              1            2             0             0           0            0               6
           07:30 AM              0            0              0              0            0             0              0            1             0             0           0            0               1
           07:45 AM              0            3              2              0            0             1              1            2             0             0           0            0               9
               Total             0            8              3              0            0             1              3            6             0             0           2            0              23

           08:00 AM              0           2               1              0            0             0              0            2             1             0           1            0               7
           08:15 AM              0           2               0              0            0             0              1            0             0             0           0            1               4
           08:30 AM              0           4               0              0            0             0              0            2             0             0           0            0               6
           08:45 AM              0           3               0              0            0             0              0            0             0             0           0            0               3
               Total             0          11               1              0            0             0              1            4             1             0           1            1              20

        Grand Total              0          19           4                  0            0             1            4             10            1              0           3           1               43
          Apprch %               0        82.6        17.4                  0            0          100          26.7           66.7          6.7              0          75         25
           Total %               0        44.2         9.3                  0            0           2.3          9.3           23.3          2.3              0           7         2.3




                               Auburn Street                                Auburn Street                                 Grove Street                             Central Street
                                From North                                   From East                                     From South                               From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total          Right      Thru     Left     App. Total     Right        Thru     Left   App. Total   Right       Thru      Left   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
    07:45 AM         0       3       2        5       0                       0        1              1         1         2          0            3       0           0       0             0           9
    08:00 AM         0       2       1        3       0                       0        0              0         0         2          1            3       0           1       0             1           7
    08:15 AM         0       2       0        2       0                       0        0              0         1         0          0            1       0           0       1             1           4
    08:30 AM         0       4       0        4       0                       0        0              0         0         2          0            2       0           0       0             0           6
 Total Volume        0      11       3       14       0                       0        1              1         2         6          1            9       0           1       1             2          26
 % App. Total        0    78.6    21.4                0                       0      100                     22.2      66.7       11.1                    0          50      50
          PHF    .000     .688    .375     .700    .000                    .000     .250          .250       .500      .750       .250        .750     .000        .250    .250         .500        .722
                                                                                 PRECISION
                                                                                 D A T A
N/S: Auburn Street/ Grove Street                                                 INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                            File Name        : 91860 P
                                                                              P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Auburn Street/ Central Street                                       Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                             Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                            Site Code        : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                      Start Date       : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                      Page No          :1


                                                                       Groups Printed- Peds and Bicycles
                             Auburn Street                       Auburn Street                         Grove Street                                      Central Street
                              From North                          From East                            From South                                         From West
       Start Time    Right    Thru      Left    Peds     Right    Thru      Left    Peds     Right     Thru      Left              Peds         Right     Thru       Left   Peds         Int. Total
      07:00 AM          0        0        0        0         0       0           0            1           0         0        0          0          0         0         0        0                1
      07:15 AM          0        0        0        0         0       0           1            0           0         0        0          0          0         0         0        0                1
      07:30 AM          0        0        0        2         0       0           0            2           0         0        0          0          0         0         0        3                7
      07:45 AM          0        1        0        0         0       0           0            0           0         1        0          0          0         0         0        1                3
          Total         0        1        0        2         0       0           1            3           0         1        0          0          0         0         0        4               12

      08:00 AM          0        0        0        1         0       0           0            0           0         0        0          0          0         0         0       0                 1
      08:15 AM          0        1        0        3         0       0           0            3           0         0        0          0          0         1         0       7                15
      08:30 AM          0        0        0        0         0       0           0            0           0         0        0          1          0         0         0       2                 3
      08:45 AM          0        0        0        0         0       0           0            0           0         0        0          0          0         0         0       2                 2
          Total         0        1        0        4         0       0           0            3           0         0        0          1          0         1         0      11                21

   Grand Total          0        2        0        6         0       0         1           6              0         1        0         1           0         1         0     15                 33
     Apprch %           0      25         0      75          0       0      14.3        85.7              0        50        0        50           0       6.2         0    93.8
      Total %           0      6.1        0     18.2         0       0         3        18.2              0         3        0         3           0         3         0    45.5




                            Auburn Street                       Auburn Street                                     Grove Street                             Central Street
                             From North                           From East                                        From South                                From West
   Start Time Right Thru        Left Peds App. Total Right   Thru    Left Peds       App. Total   Right       Thru    Left Peds   App. Total   Right    Thru    Left Peds   App. Total    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
  07:30 AM      0       0     0     2        2     0  0    0    2                           2  0    0    0    0                          0  0    0    0    3                      3             7
  07:45 AM      0       1     0     0        1     0  0    0    0                           0  0    1    0    0                          1  0    0    0    1                      1             3
  08:00 AM      0       0     0     1        1     0  0    0    0                           0  0    0    0    0                          0  0    0    0    0                      0             1
  08:15 AM      0       1     0     3        4     0  0    0    3                           3  0    0    0    0                          0  0    1    0    7                      8            15
 Total Volume   0       2     0     6        8     0  0    0    5                           5  0    1    0    0                          1  0    1    0   11                     12            26
 % App. Total   0     25      0    75              0  0    0 100                               0 100     0    0                             0  8.3    0 91.7
        PHF .000 .500 .000 .500          .500 .000 .000 .000 .417                      .417 .000 .250 .000 .000                     .250 .000 .250 .000 .393                  .375          .433
                                                                                                  PRECISION
                                                                                                  D A T A
N/S: Auburn Street/ Grove Street                                                                  INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                                  File Name             : 91860 P
                                                                                              P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Auburn Street/ Central Street                                                       Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                             Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                                   Site Code             : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                                             Start Date            : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                                             Page No               :1



                               Auburn Street                                      Auburn Street                               Grove Street                                   Central Street
                                From North                                         From East                                   From South                                     From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total                   Right   Thru     Left     App. Total     Right      Thru     Left   App. Total      Right          Thru      Left         App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
    07:30 AM          8      67      25     100      29                             12       7            48          32      107        1         140           2            32                6         40        328
     07:45 AM         3     86       28     117      34                             14      13            61         41        80        3         124           4             21               1         26        328
     08:00 AM         4      75     46      125      36                             14      15            65          26      103        4         133           5             32               5         42        365
     08:15 AM         7      75      26     108      35                             10      12            57          25        84       4         113           3             25               6         34        312
 Total Volume        22    303     125      450     134                             50      47           231        124       374       12         510          14           110               18        142       1333
  % App. Total      4.9   67.3    27.8               58                           21.6    20.3                     24.3      73.3      2.4                     9.9          77.5             12.7
           PHF    .688    .881    .679     .900    .931                           .893    .783          .888       .756      .874     .750        .911        .700          .859             .750       .845        .913
           Cars      22    296     122      440     134                             50      46           230        122       369       11         502          14           109               17        140       1312
       % Cars      100    97.7    97.6     97.8     100                            100    97.9          99.6       98.4      98.7     91.7        98.4         100          99.1             94.4       98.6        98.4
 Heavy Vehicles       0       7       3       10      0                              0       1             1           2         5       1            8          0              1               1           2         21
 % Heavy Vehicles     0     2.3     2.4      2.2      0                              0     2.1           0.4         1.6       1.3     8.3          1.6          0            0.9             5.6         1.4        1.6

                                                                                                   Auburn Street
                                                                                              Out       In       Total
                                                                                               520       440      960
                                                                                                  6       10        16
                                                                                               526       450      976


                                                                                                     22  296       122
                                                                                                      0     7         3
                                                                                                     22  303       125
                                                                                                  Right Thru      Left




                                                                                          Peak Hour Data
                                                     223
                                                        3
                                                     226
                                                    Total




                                                                                                                                                                  Out
                                                              17
                                                                1
                                                              18




                                                                                                                                                                   359

                                                                                                                                                                   353
                                                                                                                                                Right Thru
                                                            Left




                                                                                                                                                  134

                                                                                                                                                  134



                                                                                                                                                                      6




                                                                                                         North
                                                                                                                                                                       Auburn Street
                                     Central Street




                                                                                                                                                    0
                                             140
                                               2
                                             142




                                                                                         Peak Hour Begins at 07:30 AM
                                                                   109
                                                                      1
                                                                   110
                                                            Right Thru
                                            In




                                                                                                                                                                            In
                                                                                                                                                                             231

                                                                                                                                                                             230
                                                                                                                                                        50

                                                                                                                                                        50




                                                                                         Cars
                                                                                                                                                          0




                                                                                                                                                                               1




                                                                                         Heavy Vehicles
                                                               14
                                                                0
                                                               14




                                                                                                                                                Left
                                   83
                                     1
                                   84
                                 Out




                                                                                                                                                                                     Total
                                                                                                                                                  47

                                                                                                                                                  46
                                                                                                                                                    1



                                                                                                                                                                                      590

                                                                                                                                                                                      583
                                                                                                                                                                                         7




                                                                                                  Left Thru Right
                                                                                                    11  369   122
                                                                                                      1    5    2
                                                                                                    12  374   124


                                                                                               356         502      858
                                                                                                  8          8        16
                                                                                               364         510      874
                                                                                              Out         In       Total
                                                                                                      Grove Street
                                                                                          PRECISION
                                                                                          D A T A
N/S: Auburn Street/ Grove Street                                                          INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                           File Name          : 91860 PP
                                                                                      P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Auburn Street/ Central Street                                               Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                     Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                    Site Code          : 10865.00
City/State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                              Start Date         : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                              Page No            :1


                                                                               Groups Printed- Cars - Heavy Vehicles
                                    Auburn Street                            Auburn Street                       Grove Street                               Central Street
                                     From North                               From East                           From South                                 From West
             Start Time       Right       Thru          Left           Right       Thru         Left       Right       Thru                 Left      Right        Thru            Left        Int. Total
           04:00 PM              0          75          24              36           15              9              9          69              1             0           16          3             257
           04:15 PM              5          74          32              31           19              6              9          92              3             2            9          3             285
           04:30 PM              5          69          27              27           17              9             15          81              3             2            9          5             269
           04:45 PM              2          65          25              22           15              5             13          71              1             2           21          4             246
               Total            12         283         108             116           66             29             46         313              8             6           55         15            1057

           05:00 PM              3          92          32              24           30             13             22          89             3              2           33          3             346
           05:15 PM              5          91          33              26           22             18             18         104             3              0           30          4             354
           05:30 PM              3          95          41              31           20             20             23         112             5              5           33          3             391
           05:45 PM              0          76          44              20           21             13             23         107             3              1           39          2             349
               Total            11         354         150             101           93             64             86         412            14              8          135         12            1440

      Grand Total              23         637         258              217        159             93           132            725           22          14           190           27             2497
        Apprch %               2.5        69.4        28.1             46.3       33.9           19.8           15            82.5         2.5          6.1          82.3         11.7
          Total %              0.9        25.5        10.3              8.7        6.4            3.7           5.3             29         0.9          0.6           7.6          1.1
            Cars               22         629         257              217        158              93          127             710          22          14           190            26            2465
          % Cars              95.7        98.7        99.6             100        99.4           100           96.2           97.9         100         100           100          96.3             98.7
   Heavy Vehicles                1           8           1                0          1              0             5             15           0            0             0            1              32
 % Heavy Vehicles              4.3         1.3         0.4                0        0.6              0           3.8             2.1          0            0             0          3.7              1.3




                               Auburn Street                              Auburn Street                                 Grove Street                             Central Street
                                From North                                 From East                                     From South                               From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total        Right      Thru     Left    App. Total      Right        Thru     Left   App. Total   Right       Thru      Left   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
    05:00 PM         3      92      32      127      24                    30       13            67         22         89          3        114        2          33         3         38        346
     05:15 PM        5       91      33     129      26                    22       18            66         18       104           3        125        0          30         4         34        354
     05:30 PM        3      95      41      139      31                    20       20            71         23       112           5        140        5          33         3         41        391
     05:45 PM        0       76     44      120      20                    21       13            54         23       107           3        133        1          39         2         42        349
 Total Volume       11     354     150      515     101                    93       64           258         86       412          14        512        8         135        12        155       1440
  % App. Total     2.1    68.7    29.1             39.1                    36     24.8                     16.8      80.5         2.7                 5.2        87.1       7.7
           PHF    .550    .932    .852     .926    .815                  .775     .800          .908       .935      .920       .700        .914     .400        .865     .750        .923        .921
           Cars     10     351     149      510     101                    92       64           257         82       407         14         503        8         135       12         155       1425
       % Cars     90.9    99.2    99.3     99.0     100                  98.9      100          99.6       95.3      98.8        100        98.2      100         100      100         100        99.0
 Heavy Vehicles      1        3       1        5      0                     1        0             1          4          5          0           9       0           0         0          0          15
 % Heavy Vehicles  9.1      0.8     0.7      1.0      0                   1.1        0           0.4        4.7        1.2          0         1.8       0           0         0          0         1.0
                                                                                          PRECISION
                                                                                          D A T A
N/S: Auburn Street/ Grove Street                                                          INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                           File Name          : 91860 PP
                                                                                      P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Auburn Street/ Central Street                                               Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                     Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                    Site Code          : 10865.00
City/State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                              Start Date         : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                              Page No            :1


                                                                                       Groups Printed- Cars
                                    Auburn Street                            Auburn Street                      Grove Street                                Central Street
                                     From North                               From East                         From South                                   From West
             Start Time       Right       Thru          Left           Right       Thru        Left       Right       Thru                  Left      Right        Thru            Left        Int. Total
           04:00 PM              0          71          24              36           15              9              9          63              1             0           16          2             246
           04:15 PM              5          74          32              31           19              6              9          91              3             2            9          3             284
           04:30 PM              5          68          27              27           17              9             15          81              3             2            9          5             268
           04:45 PM              2          65          25              22           15              5             12          68              1             2           21          4             242
               Total            12         278         108             116           66             29             45         303              8             6           55         14            1040

           05:00 PM              2          91          32              24           30             13             22          86             3              2           33          3             341
           05:15 PM              5          91          33              26           22             18             18         104             3              0           30          4             354
           05:30 PM              3          93          41              31           19             20             22         111             5              5           33          3             386
           05:45 PM              0          76          43              20           21             13             20         106             3              1           39          2             344
               Total            10         351         149             101           92             64             82         407            14              8          135         12            1425

        Grand Total            22         629         257              217        158             93           127            710            22         14           190           26             2465
          Apprch %             2.4        69.3        28.3             46.4       33.8           19.9          14.8           82.7          2.6         6.1          82.6         11.3
           Total %             0.9        25.5        10.4              8.8        6.4            3.8           5.2           28.8          0.9         0.6           7.7          1.1




                               Auburn Street                              Auburn Street                                 Grove Street                             Central Street
                                From North                                 From East                                     From South                               From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total        Right      Thru     Left    App. Total      Right        Thru     Left   App. Total   Right       Thru      Left   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
    05:00 PM         2      91      32      125      24                    30       13            67         22        86          3         111        2          33        3          38        341
    05:15 PM         5      91      33      129      26                    22       18            66         18       104          3         125        0          30        4          34        354
    05:30 PM         3      93      41      137      31                    19       20            70         22       111          5         138        5          33        3          41        386
    05:45 PM         0      76      43      119      20                    21       13            54         20       106          3         129        1          39        2          42        344
 Total Volume      10      351     149      510     101                    92       64           257         82       407         14         503        8         135       12         155       1425
 % App. Total        2    68.8    29.2             39.3                  35.8     24.9                     16.3      80.9        2.8                  5.2        87.1      7.7
          PHF    .500     .944    .866     .931    .815                  .767     .800          .918       .932      .917       .700        .911     .400        .865     .750        .923        .923
                                                                                             PRECISION
                                                                                             D A T A
N/S: Auburn Street/ Grove Street                                                             INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                          File Name          : 91860 PP
                                                                                        P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Auburn Street/ Central Street                                                 Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                       Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                      Site Code          : 10865.00
City/State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                                Start Date         : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                                Page No            :1


                                                                                   Groups Printed- Heavy Vehicles
                                    Auburn Street                              Auburn Street                      Grove Street                                Central Street
                                     From North                                 From East                         From South                                   From West
             Start Time       Right       Thru          Left             Right       Thru        Left      Right        Thru                  Left      Right        Thru            Left        Int. Total
           04:00 PM              0            4              0              0            0             0              0            6             0             0           0            1              11
           04:15 PM              0            0              0              0            0             0              0            1             0             0           0            0               1
           04:30 PM              0            1              0              0            0             0              0            0             0             0           0            0               1
           04:45 PM              0            0              0              0            0             0              1            3             0             0           0            0               4
               Total             0            5              0              0            0             0              1           10             0             0           0            1              17

           05:00 PM              1            1              0              0            0             0              0            3             0             0           0            0               5
           05:15 PM              0            0              0              0            0             0              0            0             0             0           0            0               0
           05:30 PM              0            2              0              0            1             0              1            1             0             0           0            0               5
           05:45 PM              0            0              1              0            0             0              3            1             0             0           0            0               5
               Total             1            3              1              0            1             0              4            5             0             0           0            0              15

        Grand Total              1           8            1                 0           1              0            5            15              0             0           0            1              32
          Apprch %             10           80          10                  0        100               0          25             75              0             0           0         100
           Total %             3.1          25          3.1                 0         3.1              0         15.6           46.9             0             0           0          3.1




                               Auburn Street                                Auburn Street                                 Grove Street                             Central Street
                                From North                                   From East                                     From South                               From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total          Right      Thru     Left     App. Total     Right        Thru     Left   App. Total   Right       Thru      Left   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:00 PM
    04:00 PM         0       4       0        4       0                       0        0              0         0         6          0           6        0           0       1             1          11
    04:15 PM         0       0       0        0       0                       0        0              0         0         1          0           1        0           0       0             0           1
    04:30 PM         0       1       0        1       0                       0        0              0         0         0          0           0        0           0       0             0           1
    04:45 PM         0       0       0        0       0                       0        0              0         1         3          0           4        0           0       0             0           4
 Total Volume        0       5       0        5       0                       0        0              0         1        10          0          11        0           0       1             1          17
 % App. Total        0     100       0                0                       0        0                      9.1      90.9          0                    0           0     100
          PHF    .000     .313    .000     .313    .000                    .000     .000          .000       .250      .417       .000        .458     .000        .000    .250         .250        .386
                                                                                 PRECISION
                                                                                 D A T A
N/S: Auburn Street/ Grove Street                                                 INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                                File Name      : 91860 PP
                                                                              P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Auburn Street/ Central Street                                       Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                             Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                Site Code      : 10865.00
City/State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                          Start Date     : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                          Page No        :1


                                                                       Groups Printed- Peds and Bicycles
                             Auburn Street                       Auburn Street                         Grove Street                                        Central Street
                              From North                          From East                            From South                                           From West
       Start Time    Right    Thru      Left    Peds     Right    Thru      Left    Peds     Right     Thru      Left               Peds         Right      Thru       Left   Peds         Int. Total
      04:00 PM          0        0        0        0         0       1           0            2           0         0         0          0          0           0        0        0                 3
      04:15 PM          0        0        0        0         0       0           0            1           0         1         0          0          0           1        0        1                 4
      04:30 PM          0        0        0        0         0       0           0            0           0         0         0          0          0           0        0        0                 0
      04:45 PM          0        0        0        0         0       0           0            0           0         0         0          0          0           0        0        0                 0
          Total         0        0        0        0         0       1           0            3           0         1         0          0          0           1        0        1                 7

      05:00 PM          0        2        0        0         0       0           0            2           0         0         0          0          0           0        0        1                5
      05:15 PM          0        0        0        1         0       0           0            0           0         2         0          0          0           0        0        1                4
      05:30 PM          0        0        0        0         0       0           0            0           0         0         0          0          0           0        0        1                1
      05:45 PM          0        1        0        2         0       0           0            1           0         0         0          1          0           0        0        6               11
          Total         0        3        0        3         0       0           0            3           0         2         0          1          0           0        0        9               21

   Grand Total          0        3        0        3         0      1            0         6              0         3         0         1           0         1          0     10                 28
     Apprch %           0      50         0      50          0   14.3            0      85.7              0       75          0       25            0       9.1          0    90.9
      Total %           0     10.7        0     10.7         0    3.6            0      21.4              0      10.7         0       3.6           0       3.6          0    35.7




                            Auburn Street                       Auburn Street                                     Grove Street                              Central Street
                             From North                           From East                                        From South                                 From West
   Start Time Right Thru        Left Peds App. Total Right   Thru    Left Peds       App. Total   Right       Thru    Left Peds    App. Total   Right    Thru    Left Peds    App. Total    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
  05:00 PM      0       2     0     0        2     0  0    0    2                           2        0    0             0     0           0        0       0        0   1             1           5
  05:15 PM      0       0     0     1        1     0  0    0    0                           0        0    2                               2        0       0        0   1             1           4
  05:30 PM      0       0     0     0        0     0  0    0    0                           0        0    0            0       0          0        0       0        0   1             1           1
  05:45 PM      0       1     0     2        3     0  0    0    1                           1        0    0            0       1                                        6             6          11
 Total Volume   0       3     0     3        6     0  0    0    3                           3        0    2            0       1          3        0        0      0    9             9          21
 % App. Total   0     50      0    50              0  0    0 100                                     0 66.7            0    33.3                   0        0      0 100
        PHF .000 .375 .000 .375          .500 .000 .000 .000 .375                      .375       .000 .250         .000    .250     .375       .000     .000   .000 .375       .375          .477
                                                                                                  PRECISION
                                                                                                  D A T A
N/S: Auburn Street/ Grove Street                                                                  INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                                  File Name              : 91860 PP
                                                                                              P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Auburn Street/ Central Street                                                       Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                             Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                                   Site Code              : 10865.00
City/State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                                             Start Date             : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                                             Page No                :1



                               Auburn Street                                      Auburn Street                               Grove Street                                   Central Street
                                From North                                         From East                                   From South                                     From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total                   Right   Thru     Left     App. Total     Right      Thru     Left   App. Total      Right          Thru      Left          App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
    05:00 PM         3      92      32      127      24                             30      13            67         22         89        3        114           2            33                 3         38        346
     05:15 PM        5       91      33     129      26                             22      18            66         18       104         3        125           0            30                 4         34        354
     05:30 PM        3      95      41      139      31                             20      20            71         23       112         5        140           5            33                 3         41        391
     05:45 PM        0       76     44      120      20                             21      13            54         23       107         3        133           1            39                 2         42        349
 Total Volume       11     354     150      515     101                             93      64           258         86       412        14        512           8           135                12        155       1440
  % App. Total     2.1    68.7    29.1             39.1                             36    24.8                     16.8      80.5       2.7                    5.2          87.1               7.7
           PHF    .550    .932    .852     .926    .815                           .775    .800          .908       .935      .920     .700        .914        .400          .865             .750        .923        .921
           Cars     10     351     149      510     101                             92      64           257         82       407       14         503           8           135               12         155       1425
       % Cars     90.9    99.2    99.3     99.0     100                           98.9     100          99.6       95.3      98.8      100        98.2         100           100              100         100        99.0
 Heavy Vehicles      1        3       1        5      0                              1       0             1          4          5        0           9          0             0                 0          0          15
 % Heavy Vehicles  9.1      0.8     0.7      1.0      0                            1.1       0           0.4        4.7        1.2        0         1.8          0             0                 0          0         1.0

                                                                                                   Auburn Street
                                                                                              Out       In       Total
                                                                                               520       510     1030
                                                                                                  5        5        10
                                                                                               525       515     1040


                                                                                                     10  351       149
                                                                                                      1     3         1
                                                                                                     11  354       150
                                                                                                  Right Thru      Left




                                                                                          Peak Hour Data
                                                     271
                                                        2
                                                     273
                                                    Total




                                                                                                                                                                  Out
                                                              12
                                                                0
                                                              12




                                                                                                                                                                   371

                                                                                                                                                                   366
                                                                                                                                                Right Thru
                                                            Left




                                                                                                                                                  101

                                                                                                                                                  101



                                                                                                                                                                      5




                                                                                                         North
                                                                                                                                                                       Auburn Street
                                     Central Street




                                                                                                                                                    0
                                             155
                                               0
                                             155




                                                                                         Peak Hour Begins at 05:00 PM
                                                                   135
                                                                      0
                                                                   135
                                                            Right Thru
                                            In




                                                                                                                                                                            In
                                                                                                                                                                             258

                                                                                                                                                                             257
                                                                                                                                                        93

                                                                                                                                                        92




                                                                                         Cars
                                                                                                                                                          1




                                                                                                                                                                               1




                                                                                         Heavy Vehicles
                                                                8
                                                                0
                                                                8




                                                                                                                                                Left
                                  116
                                     2
                                  118
                                 Out




                                                                                                                                                                                     Total
                                                                                                                                                  64

                                                                                                                                                  64
                                                                                                                                                    0



                                                                                                                                                                                      629

                                                                                                                                                                                      623
                                                                                                                                                                                         6




                                                                                                  Left Thru Right
                                                                                                    14  407    82
                                                                                                      0    5    4
                                                                                                    14  412    86


                                                                                               423         503      926
                                                                                                  3          9        12
                                                                                               426         512      938
                                                                                              Out         In       Total
                                                                                                      Grove Street
                                                                                           PRECISION
                                                                                           D A T A
N/S: Hancock Street                                                                        INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                        File Name        : 91860 Q
                                                                                       P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Woodland Street                                                              Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                      Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                  Site Code        : 10865.00
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                           Start Date       : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                            Page No          :1


                                                                               Groups Printed- Cars - Heavy Vehicles
                                   Hancock Street                            Woodland Street                    Hancock Street                         Woodland Street
                                    From North                                 From East                          From South                             From West
             Start Time       Right      Thru           Left             Right      Thru        Left       Right       Thru               Left     Right      Thru              Left      Int. Total
           07:00 AM              2            0              0              5          4              0              2          4           2             0           15         5             39
           07:15 AM              0            0              4              1          7              0              1          2           3             1            8         0             27
           07:30 AM              1            0              1              0         12              0              2          2           8             1           18         1             46
           07:45 AM              3            0              4              3         13              0              2          6           3             1           22         7             64
               Total             6            0              9              9         36              0              7         14          16             3           63        13            176

           08:00 AM              0            0              1              0          5              1             10          5           7             0           25          0            54
           08:15 AM              2            0              3              1         12              0             18          9          11             1           31          0            88
           08:30 AM              0            1              1              2         12              0             15         11          16             0           31          2            91
           08:45 AM              2            0              0              1         16              0              2          3           6             0           13          2            45
               Total             4            1              5              4         45              1             45         28          40             1          100          4           278

      Grand Total              10             1         14                 13         81             1            52           42         56           4           163           17           454
        Apprch %               40             4         56               13.7       85.3           1.1          34.7           28       37.3         2.2           88.6         9.2
          Total %              2.2          0.2        3.1                2.9       17.8           0.2          11.5          9.3       12.3         0.9           35.9         3.7
            Cars               10             1         13                 11         76             1            52           38         54           4           163           17          440
          % Cars              100          100        92.9               84.6       93.8           100          100          90.5       96.4        100            100         100           96.9
   Heavy Vehicles                0            0          1                  2          5             0             0            4          2           0              0           0           14
 % Heavy Vehicles                0            0        7.1               15.4        6.2             0             0          9.5        3.6           0              0           0           3.1




                              Hancock Street                              Woodland Street                             Hancock Street                          Woodland Street
                               From North                                   From East                                   From South                              From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total          Right     Thru     Left App. Total         Right      Thru     Left App. Total   Right        Thru     Left App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
    07:45 AM         3        0      4        7       3                      13        0           16          2         6        3        11        1          22         7        30         64
     08:00 AM        0        0      1        1       0                       5        1            6         10         5        7        22        0          25         0        25         54
     08:15 AM        2        0      3        5       1                      12        0           13         18         9       11        38        1          31         0        32         88
     08:30 AM        0        1      1        2       2                      12        0           14         15        11       16        42        0          31         2        33         91
 Total Volume        5        1      9       15       6                      42        1           49         45        31       37       113        2         109         9       120        297
  % App. Total    33.3      6.7     60             12.2                    85.7        2                    39.8      27.4     32.7                1.7        90.8       7.5
           PHF    .417    .250    .563     .536    .500                    .808     .250         .766       .625      .705     .578       .673    .500        .879     .321       .909       .816
           Cars      5        1      9       15       5                      39        1           45         45        28       36        109       2         109         9       120        289
       % Cars      100     100     100      100    83.3                    92.9      100         91.8        100      90.3     97.3       96.5     100         100      100        100       97.3
 Heavy Vehicles      0        0      0        0       1                       3        0            4          0         3        1          4       0           0         0         0          8
 % Heavy Vehicles    0        0      0        0    16.7                     7.1        0          8.2          0       9.7      2.7        3.5       0           0         0         0        2.7
                                                                                           PRECISION
                                                                                           D A T A
N/S: Hancock Street                                                                        INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                        File Name        : 91860 Q
                                                                                       P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Woodland Street                                                              Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                      Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                  Site Code        : 10865.00
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                           Start Date       : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                            Page No          :1


                                                                                       Groups Printed- Cars
                                   Hancock Street                            Woodland Street                   Hancock Street                          Woodland Street
                                    From North                                 From East                        From South                               From West
             Start Time       Right      Thru           Left             Right      Thru       Left       Right      Thru                 Left     Right      Thru              Left      Int. Total
           07:00 AM              2            0              0              4          3              0              2          4           2             0           15         5             37
           07:15 AM              0            0              3              1          6              0              1          1           3             1            8         0             24
           07:30 AM              1            0              1              0         12              0              2          2           7             1           18         1             45
           07:45 AM              3            0              4              2         12              0              2          6           3             1           22         7             62
               Total             6            0              8              7         33              0              7         13          15             3           63        13            168

           08:00 AM              0            0              1              0          5              1             10          4           6             0           25          0            52
           08:15 AM              2            0              3              1         11              0             18          7          11             1           31          0            85
           08:30 AM              0            1              1              2         11              0             15         11          16             0           31          2            90
           08:45 AM              2            0              0              1         16              0              2          3           6             0           13          2            45
               Total             4            1              5              4         43              1             45         25          39             1          100          4           272

        Grand Total             10           1          13                 11         76              1           52          38          54           4           163           17           440
          Apprch %            41.7         4.2        54.2               12.5       86.4            1.1         36.1         26.4       37.5         2.2           88.6         9.2
           Total %             2.3         0.2           3                2.5       17.3            0.2         11.8          8.6       12.3         0.9            37          3.9




                              Hancock Street                              Woodland Street                             Hancock Street                          Woodland Street
                               From North                                   From East                                   From South                              From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total          Right     Thru     Left App. Total         Right      Thru     Left App. Total   Right        Thru     Left App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
    07:45 AM         3       0       4        7       2                      12       0            14          2         6        3        11        1          22        7         30         62
    08:00 AM         0       0       1        1       0                       5       1             6         10         4        6        20        0          25        0         25         52
    08:15 AM         2       0       3        5       1                      11       0            12         18         7       11        36        1          31        0         32         85
    08:30 AM         0       1       1        2       2                      11       0            13         15        11       16        42        0          31        2         33         90
 Total Volume        5       1       9       15       5                      39       1            45         45        28       36       109        2         109        9        120        289
 % App. Total    33.3      6.7      60             11.1                    86.7     2.2                     41.3      25.7       33                1.7        90.8      7.5
          PHF    .417     .250    .563     .536    .625                    .813    .250          .804       .625      .636     .563       .649    .500        .879     .321       .909       .803
                                                                                            PRECISION
                                                                                            D A T A
N/S: Hancock Street                                                                         INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                       File Name        : 91860 Q
                                                                                       P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Woodland Street                                                              Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                      Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                  Site Code        : 10865.00
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                           Start Date       : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                            Page No          :1


                                                                                   Groups Printed- Heavy Vehicles
                                   Hancock Street                            Woodland Street                    Hancock Street                         Woodland Street
                                    From North                                 From East                          From South                             From West
             Start Time       Right      Thru           Left             Right      Thru         Left      Right       Thru               Left     Right      Thru              Left       Int. Total
           07:00 AM              0            0              0              1           1             0              0          0           0             0           0           0                2
           07:15 AM              0            0              1              0           1             0              0          1           0             0           0           0                3
           07:30 AM              0            0              0              0           0             0              0          0           1             0           0           0                1
           07:45 AM              0            0              0              1           1             0              0          0           0             0           0           0                2
               Total             0            0              1              2           3             0              0          1           1             0           0           0                8

           08:00 AM              0            0              0              0           0             0              0          1           1             0           0           0                2
           08:15 AM              0            0              0              0           1             0              0          2           0             0           0           0                3
           08:30 AM              0            0              0              0           1             0              0          0           0             0           0           0                1
           08:45 AM              0            0              0              0           0             0              0          0           0             0           0           0                0
               Total             0            0              0              0           2             0              0          3           1             0           0           0                6

        Grand Total              0            0           1                 2          5              0              0          4          2              0           0           0              14
          Apprch %               0            0        100               28.6       71.4              0              0       66.7       33.3              0           0           0
           Total %               0            0         7.1              14.3       35.7              0              0       28.6       14.3              0           0           0




                              Hancock Street                              Woodland Street                             Hancock Street                          Woodland Street
                               From North                                   From East                                   From South                              From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total          Right     Thru     Left App. Total         Right      Thru     Left App. Total   Right        Thru     Left App. Total    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:00 AM
    07:00 AM         0       0       0        0       1                       1        0             2         0         0        0          0       0           0        0            0           2
    07:15 AM         0       0       1        1       0                       1        0             1         0         1        0          1       0           0        0            0           3
    07:30 AM         0       0       0        0       0                       0        0             0         0         0        1          1       0           0        0            0           1
    07:45 AM         0       0       0        0       1                       1        0             2         0         0        0          0       0           0        0            0           2
 Total Volume        0       0       1        1       2                       3        0             5         0         1        1          2       0           0        0            0           8
 % App. Total        0       0     100               40                      60        0                       0        50       50                  0           0        0
          PHF    .000     .000    .250     .250    .500                    .750     .000         .625       .000      .250     .250       .500    .000        .000     .000       .000        .667
                                                                                  PRECISION
                                                                                  D A T A
N/S: Hancock Street                                                               INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                                File Name         : 91860 Q
                                                                               P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Woodland Street                                                      Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                              Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                 Site Code         : 10865.00
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                          Start Date        : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                           Page No           :1


                                                                       Groups Printed- Peds and Bicycles
                             Hancock Street                      Woodland Street                     Hancock Street                                        Woodland Street
                              From North                           From East                           From South                                            From West
       Start Time    Right    Thru      Left    Peds     Right    Thru      Left    Peds     Right     Thru     Left                 Peds         Right     Thru       Left       Peds         Int. Total
      07:00 AM          0        0        1        7         0        0           0         14             0         0         0         5           0           0       0            0               27
      07:15 AM          0        0        0        0         0        0           0          1             0         1         0         0           0           0       0            0                2
      07:30 AM          0        0        0        5         0        2           0          1             0         0         0         1           0           1       0            4               14
      07:45 AM          0        1        0        2         0        0           0          7             0         0         0         5           0           0       0            1               16
          Total         0        1        1       14         0        2           0         23             0         1         0        11           0           1       0            5               59

      08:00 AM          0        0        0        1         0        0           0          2             0         0         0         0           0           0       0            0                3
      08:15 AM          0        0        0        1         0        1           0          5             0         0         1        11           0           0       0            2               21
      08:30 AM          0        0        0        0         0        0           0          4             0         0         0         0           0           1       0            0                5
      08:45 AM          0        0        0        0         0        0           0          1             0         0         0         2           1           0       0            0                4
          Total         0        0        0        2         0        1           0         12             0         0         1        13           1           1       0            2               33

   Grand Total          0        1        1       16         0        3           0       35               0         1         1      24             1          2        0           7                92
     Apprch %           0      5.6      5.6     88.9         0      7.9           0      92.1              0       3.8       3.8     92.3           10        20         0         70
      Total %           0      1.1      1.1     17.4         0      3.3           0       38               0       1.1       1.1     26.1          1.1        2.2        0         7.6




                           Hancock Street                      Woodland Street                                   Hancock Street                             Woodland Street
                             From North                           From East                                         From South                                 From West
   Start Time Right Thru        Left Peds App. Total Right   Thru    Left Peds        App. Total   Right       Thru    Left Peds    App. Total   Right    Thru    Left Peds       App. Total    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:00 AM
  07:00 AM      0       0     1     7        8     0  0    0   14                          14         0    0             0     5           5        0        0       0        0           0          27
  07:15 AM      0       0     0     0        0     0  0    0    1                           1         0    1
  07:30 AM      0       0     0     5        5     0  2    0    1                           3         0    0            0       1         1         0        1      0    4                5          14
  07:45 AM      0       1     0     2        3     0  0    0    7                           7         0    0            0       5         5         0        0      0    1                1          16
 Total Volume   0       1     1    14      16      0  2    0   23                          25         0    1            0      11        12         0        1      0    5                6          59
 % App. Total   0     6.2   6.2 87.5               0  8    0   92                                     0  8.3            0    91.7                   0     16.7      0 83.3
        PHF .000 .250 .250 .500          .500 .000 .250 .000 .411                       .446       .000 .250         .000    .550     .600       .000     .250   .000 .313          .300          .546
                                                                                                PRECISION
                                                                                                D A T A
N/S: Hancock Street                                                                             INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                                 File Name        : 91860 Q
                                                                                             P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Woodland Street                                                                    Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                            Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                                Site Code        : 10865.00
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                                         Start Date       : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                                          Page No          :1



                              Hancock Street                                    Woodland Street                             Hancock Street                             Woodland Street
                               From North                                         From East                                   From South                                 From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total                 Right    Thru     Left App. Total         Right      Thru     Left App. Total       Right       Thru     Left App. Total        Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
    07:45 AM         3        0      4        7       3                           13        0            16          2         6        3        11            1           22                7    30         64
     08:00 AM        0        0      1        1       0                            5        1             6         10         5        7        22            0           25                0    25         54
     08:15 AM        2        0      3        5       1                           12        0            13         18         9       11        38            1           31                0    32         88
     08:30 AM        0        1      1        2       2                           12        0            14         15        11       16        42            0           31                2    33         91
 Total Volume        5        1      9       15       6                           42        1            49         45        31       37       113            2          109                9   120        297
  % App. Total    33.3      6.7     60             12.2                         85.7        2                     39.8      27.4     32.7                    1.7         90.8              7.5
           PHF    .417    .250    .563     .536    .500                         .808     .250          .766       .625      .705     .578       .673        .500         .879            .321    .909      .816
           Cars      5        1      9       15       5                           39        1            45         45        28       36        109           2          109                9    120       289
       % Cars      100     100     100      100    83.3                         92.9      100          91.8        100      90.3     97.3       96.5         100          100             100     100      97.3
 Heavy Vehicles      0        0      0        0       1                            3        0             4          0         3        1          4           0            0                0      0         8
 % Heavy Vehicles    0        0      0        0    16.7                          7.1        0           8.2          0       9.7      2.7        3.5           0            0                0      0       2.7

                                                                                                 Hancock Street
                                                                                             Out      In       Total
                                                                                               42       15        57
                                                                                                 4       0         4
                                                                                               46       15        61


                                                                                                    5     1          9
                                                                                                    0     0          0
                                                                                                    5     1          9
                                                                                                Right Thru       Left




                                                                                        Peak Hour Data
                                                   200
                                                      4
                                                   204
                                                  Total




                                                                                                                                                                Out
                                                              9
                                                              0
                                                              9




                                                                                                                                                                 163

                                                                                                                                                                 163
                                                                                                                                              Right Thru
                                                          Left
                                  Woodland Street




                                                                                                                                                                   Woodland Street
                                                                                                                                                                    0




                                                                                                        North
                                                                                                                                                  6
                                                                                                                                                  1
                                                                                                                                                  5
                                          120
                                            0
                                          120




                                                                                       Peak Hour Begins at 07:45 AM
                                                                 109
                                                                    0
                                                                 109
                                                          Right Thru
                                         In




                                                                                                                                                                         In
                                                                                                                                                      42

                                                                                                                                                      39


                                                                                                                                                                           49

                                                                                                                                                                           45




                                                                                       Cars
                                                                                                                                                        3




                                                                                                                                                                            4




                                                                                       Heavy Vehicles
                                                              2
                                                              0
                                                              2




                                                                                                                                              Left
                                   80
                                     4
                                   84
                                 Out




                                                                                                                                                                                 Total
                                                                                                                                                  1
                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                  1


                                                                                                                                                                                   212

                                                                                                                                                                                   208
                                                                                                                                                                                     4




                                                                                                Left Thru Right
                                                                                                  36   28    45
                                                                                                    1    3    0
                                                                                                  37   31    45


                                                                                                  4    109      113
                                                                                                  0      4         4
                                                                                                  4    113      117
                                                                                             Out      In       Total
                                                                                                 Hancock Street
                                                                                           PRECISION
                                                                                           D A T A
N/S: Hancock Street                                                                        INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                    File Name        : 91860 QQ
                                                                                       P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Woodland Street                                                              Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                      Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                              Site Code        : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                       Start Date       : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/M. Santos                                                                                                                                         Page No          :1


                                                                               Groups Printed- Cars - Heavy Vehicles
                                   Hancock Street                            Woodland Street                    Hancock Street                         Woodland Street
                                    From North                                 From East                          From South                             From West
             Start Time       Right      Thru           Left             Right      Thru        Left       Right       Thru               Left     Right      Thru          Left      Int. Total
           04:00 PM              0            0              1              1         16              0              3          3           1         5            22         2            54
           04:15 PM              0            1              1              2         11              1              2          4           3         0            20         2            47
           04:30 PM              2            3              0              3         17              0              3          2           5         3            22         3            63
           04:45 PM              0            1              2              4         10              1              0          3           5         8            27         2            63
               Total             2            5              4             10         54              2              8         12          14        16            91         9           227

           05:00 PM              0           6               5              4         13              2              2          3           7         3            32         2            79
           05:15 PM              0           0               0              1         15              3              4          6           5         6            28         0            68
           05:30 PM              0           4               2              2         16              4              6          7          12         2            39         1            95
           05:45 PM              1           3               0              1         17              4              8          4           9         4            28         1            80
               Total             1          13               7              8         61             13             20         20          33        15           127         4           322

      Grand Total                3         18          11                 18        115             15           28           32          47        31         218           13           549
        Apprch %               9.4        56.2        34.4               12.2       77.7          10.1          26.2         29.9       43.9       11.8        83.2           5
          Total %              0.5         3.3           2                3.3       20.9           2.7           5.1          5.8         8.6       5.6        39.7         2.4
            Cars                 3         18          11                 17        113             15           26           31          47        30         216           13          540
          % Cars              100         100         100                94.4       98.3           100          92.9         96.9        100       96.8        99.1         100          98.4
   Heavy Vehicles                0           0           0                  1          2             0             2            1           0         1           2           0             9
 % Heavy Vehicles                0           0           0                5.6        1.7             0           7.1          3.1           0       3.2         0.9           0           1.6




                              Hancock Street                              Woodland Street                             Hancock Street                      Woodland Street
                               From North                                   From East                                   From South                          From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total          Right     Thru     Left App. Total         Right      Thru     Left App. Total   Right    Thru     Left App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
    05:00 PM          0      6       5       11        4                     13        2           19          2         3        7         12       3       32         2       37         79
     05:15 PM         0      0       0        0        1                     15        3           19          4         6        5         15       6      28          0       34         68
     05:30 PM         0      4       2        6        2                     16        4           22          6         7       12         25       2      39          1       42         95
     05:45 PM         1      3       0        4        1                     17        4           22          8         4        9         21       4       28         1       33         80
 Total Volume         1     13       7       21        8                     61       13           82         20        20       33         73      15     127          4      146        322
  % App. Total      4.8   61.9    33.3               9.8                   74.4     15.9                    27.4      27.4     45.2               10.3       87       2.7
           PHF    .250    .542    .350     .477    .500                    .897     .813         .932       .625      .714     .688       .730    .625    .814      .500      .869       .847
           Cars       1     13       7       21        8                     60       13           81         19        20       33         72      14     126          4      144        318
       % Cars      100     100     100      100     100                    98.4      100         98.8       95.0       100      100       98.6    93.3    99.2       100      98.6       98.8
 Heavy Vehicles       0      0       0        0        0                      1        0            1          1         0        0          1       1        1         0         2         4
 % Heavy Vehicles     0      0       0        0        0                    1.6        0          1.2        5.0         0        0        1.4     6.7      0.8         0       1.4       1.2
                                                                                           PRECISION
                                                                                           D A T A
N/S: Hancock Street                                                                        INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                    File Name        : 91860 QQ
                                                                                       P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Woodland Street                                                              Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                      Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                              Site Code        : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                       Start Date       : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/M. Santos                                                                                                                                         Page No          :1


                                                                                       Groups Printed- Cars
                                   Hancock Street                            Woodland Street                   Hancock Street                          Woodland Street
                                    From North                                 From East                        From South                               From West
             Start Time       Right      Thru           Left             Right      Thru       Left       Right      Thru                 Left     Right      Thru          Left      Int. Total
           04:00 PM              0            0              1              0         16              0              3          3           1         5           22          2            53
           04:15 PM              0            1              1              2         11              1              2          3           3         0           20          2            46
           04:30 PM              2            3              0              3         16              0              2          2           5         3           21          3            60
           04:45 PM              0            1              2              4         10              1              0          3           5         8           27          2            63
               Total             2            5              4              9         53              2              7         11          14        16           90          9           222

           05:00 PM              0           6               5              4         13              2              2          3           7         3           32          2            79
           05:15 PM              0           0               0              1         15              3              4          6           5         5           28          0            67
           05:30 PM              0           4               2              2         15              4              6          7          12         2           38          1            93
           05:45 PM              1           3               0              1         17              4              7          4           9         4           28          1            79
               Total             1          13               7              8         60             13             19         20          33        14          126          4           318

        Grand Total              3         18          11                 17        113             15              26        31         47         30         216          13            540
          Apprch %             9.4        56.2        34.4               11.7       77.9          10.3              25       29.8       45.2       11.6        83.4           5
           Total %             0.6         3.3           2                3.1       20.9           2.8              4.8       5.7        8.7        5.6         40          2.4




                              Hancock Street                              Woodland Street                             Hancock Street                      Woodland Street
                               From North                                   From East                                   From South                          From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total          Right     Thru     Left App. Total         Right      Thru     Left App. Total   Right    Thru     Left App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
    05:00 PM         0       6       5       11       4                      13       2            19          2         3        7         12       3      32        2         37         79
    05:15 PM         0       0       0        0       1                      15       3            19          4         6        5         15       5      28        0         33         67
    05:30 PM         0       4       2        6       2                      15       4            21          6         7       12         25       2      38        1         41         93
    05:45 PM         1       3       0        4       1                      17       4            22          7         4        9         20       4      28        1         33         79
 Total Volume        1      13       7       21       8                      60      13            81         19        20       33         72      14     126        4        144        318
 % App. Total      4.8    61.9    33.3              9.9                    74.1      16                     26.4      27.8     45.8                9.7    87.5      2.8
          PHF    .250     .542    .350     .477    .500                    .882    .813          .920       .679      .714     .688       .720    .700    .829     .500       .878       .855
                                                                                            PRECISION
                                                                                            D A T A
N/S: Hancock Street                                                                         INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                       File Name        : 91860 QQ
                                                                                       P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Woodland Street                                                              Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                      Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                  Site Code        : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                           Start Date       : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/M. Santos                                                                                                                                             Page No          :1


                                                                                   Groups Printed- Heavy Vehicles
                                   Hancock Street                            Woodland Street                    Hancock Street                         Woodland Street
                                    From North                                 From East                          From South                             From West
             Start Time       Right      Thru           Left             Right      Thru         Left      Right       Thru               Left     Right      Thru              Left       Int. Total
           04:00 PM              0            0              0              1           0             0              0          0           0             0           0           0                1
           04:15 PM              0            0              0              0           0             0              0          1           0             0           0           0                1
           04:30 PM              0            0              0              0           1             0              1          0           0             0           1           0                3
           04:45 PM              0            0              0              0           0             0              0          0           0             0           0           0                0
               Total             0            0              0              1           1             0              1          1           0             0           1           0                5

           05:00 PM              0            0              0              0           0             0              0          0           0             0           0           0                0
           05:15 PM              0            0              0              0           0             0              0          0           0             1           0           0                1
           05:30 PM              0            0              0              0           1             0              0          0           0             0           1           0                2
           05:45 PM              0            0              0              0           0             0              1          0           0             0           0           0                1
               Total             0            0              0              0           1             0              1          0           0             1           1           0                4

        Grand Total              0            0              0              1          2              0            2            1           0         1               2           0                9
          Apprch %               0            0              0           33.3       66.7              0         66.7         33.3           0      33.3            66.7           0
           Total %               0            0              0           11.1       22.2              0         22.2         11.1           0      11.1            22.2           0




                              Hancock Street                              Woodland Street                             Hancock Street                          Woodland Street
                               From North                                   From East                                   From South                              From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total          Right     Thru     Left App. Total         Right      Thru     Left App. Total   Right        Thru     Left App. Total    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:00 PM
    04:00 PM         0       0       0        0       1                       0        0             1         0         0        0          0       0           0        0            0           1
    04:15 PM         0       0       0        0       0                       0        0             0         0         1        0          1       0           0        0            0           1
    04:30 PM         0       0       0        0       0                       1        0             1         1         0        0          1       0           1        0            1           3
    04:45 PM         0       0       0        0       0                       0        0             0         0         0        0          0       0           0        0            0           0
 Total Volume        0       0       0        0       1                       1        0             2         1         1        0          2       0           1        0            1           5
 % App. Total        0       0       0               50                      50        0                      50        50        0                  0         100        0
          PHF    .000     .000    .000     .000    .250                    .250     .000         .500       .250      .250     .000       .500    .000        .250     .000       .250        .417
                                                                                  PRECISION
                                                                                  D A T A
N/S: Hancock Street                                                               INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                               File Name     : 91860 QQ
                                                                               P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Woodland Street                                                      Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                              Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                Site Code     : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                         Start Date    : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/M. Santos                                                                                                                                           Page No       :1


                                                                       Groups Printed- Peds and Bicycles
                             Hancock Street                      Woodland Street                     Hancock Street                                       Woodland Street
                              From North                           From East                           From South                                           From West
       Start Time    Right    Thru      Left    Peds     Right    Thru      Left    Peds     Right     Thru     Left                Peds         Right     Thru       Left   Peds         Int. Total
      04:00 PM          0        1        0        4         0        0           0         22             0         0        0         8           0           0       0        0               35
      04:15 PM          0        0        0        0         0        0           0          1             0         0        0         1           0           0       0        0                2
      04:30 PM          0        0        0        0         0        0           0          4             0         0        0         2           0           0       0        1                7
      04:45 PM          0        0        0        0         0        0           0          1             0         0        0         0           0           0       0        0                1
          Total         0        1        0        4         0        0           0         28             0         0        0        11           0           0       0        1               45

      05:00 PM          0        0        0        0         0        2           0            0           0         0        0          0          0           0       0        0                2
      05:15 PM          0        0        0        0         0        0           0            0           0         0        0          0          0           0       0        1                1
      05:30 PM          0        0        0        1         0        0           0            0           0         0        0          0          0           1       0        0                2
      05:45 PM          0        0        0        1         0        0           0            5           0         0        1          3          0           0       0        1               11
          Total         0        0        0        2         0        2           0            5           0         0        1          3          0           1       0        2               16

   Grand Total          0        1        0        6         0        2           0       33               0         0        1      14             0          1        0       3                61
     Apprch %           0     14.3        0     85.7         0      5.7           0      94.3              0         0      6.7     93.3            0        25         0     75
      Total %           0      1.6        0      9.8         0      3.3           0      54.1              0         0      1.6      23             0        1.6        0     4.9




                           Hancock Street                      Woodland Street                                   Hancock Street                            Woodland Street
                             From North                           From East                                         From South                                From West
   Start Time Right Thru        Left Peds App. Total Right   Thru    Left Peds        App. Total   Right       Thru    Left Peds   App. Total   Right    Thru    Left Peds   App. Total    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:00 PM
  04:00 PM      0       1     0     4        5     0  0    0   22                          22         0    0            0      8         8         0        0      0    0            0          35
  04:15 PM      0       0     0     0        0     0  0    0    1                           1         0    0            0      1         1         0        0      0    0            0           2
  04:30 PM      0       0     0     0        0     0  0    0    4                           4         0    0            0      2         2         0        0      0    1            1           7
  04:45 PM      0       0     0     0        0     0  0    0    1                           1         0    0            0      0         0         0        0      0    0            0           1
 Total Volume   0       1     0     4        5     0  0    0   28                          28         0    0            0     11        11         0        0      0    1            1          45
 % App. Total   0     20      0    80              0  0    0 100                                      0    0            0    100                   0        0      0 100
        PHF .000 .250 .000 .250          .250 .000 .000 .000 .318                       .318       .000 .000         .000   .344     .344       .000     .000   .000 .250      .250          .321
                                                                                                PRECISION
                                                                                                D A T A
N/S: Hancock Street                                                                             INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                                 File Name        : 91860 QQ
                                                                                             P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Woodland Street                                                                    Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                            Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                                Site Code        : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                                         Start Date       : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/M. Santos                                                                                                                                                           Page No          :1



                              Hancock Street                                    Woodland Street                             Hancock Street                             Woodland Street
                               From North                                         From East                                   From South                                 From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total                 Right    Thru     Left App. Total         Right      Thru     Left App. Total       Right       Thru     Left App. Total         Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
    05:00 PM          0      6       5       11        4                          13        2            19          2         3        7         12           3            32               2    37          79
     05:15 PM         0      0       0        0        1                          15        3            19          4         6        5         15           6           28                0    34          68
     05:30 PM         0      4       2        6        2                          16        4            22          6         7       12         25           2           39                1    42          95
     05:45 PM         1      3       0        4        1                          17        4            22          8         4        9         21           4            28               1    33          80
 Total Volume         1     13       7       21        8                          61       13            82         20        20       33         73          15          127                4   146         322
  % App. Total      4.8   61.9    33.3               9.8                        74.4     15.9                     27.4      27.4     45.2                   10.3            87             2.7
           PHF    .250    .542    .350     .477    .500                         .897     .813          .932       .625      .714     .688       .730        .625         .814            .500    .869       .847
           Cars       1     13       7       21        8                          60       13            81         19        20       33         72          14          126                4    144        318
       % Cars      100     100     100      100     100                         98.4      100          98.8       95.0       100      100       98.6        93.3         99.2             100    98.6       98.8
 Heavy Vehicles       0      0       0        0        0                           1        0             1          1         0        0          1           1             1               0       2         4
 % Heavy Vehicles     0      0       0        0        0                         1.6        0           1.2        5.0         0        0        1.4         6.7           0.8               0     1.4       1.2

                                                                                                 Hancock Street
                                                                                             Out      In       Total
                                                                                               32       21        53
                                                                                                 0       0         0
                                                                                               32       21        53


                                                                                                    1   13           7
                                                                                                    0     0          0
                                                                                                    1   13           7
                                                                                                Right Thru       Left




                                                                                        Peak Hour Data
                                                   238
                                                      3
                                                   241
                                                  Total




                                                                                                                                                                Out
                                                              4
                                                              0
                                                              4




                                                                                                                                                                 154

                                                                                                                                                                 152
                                                                                                                                              Right Thru
                                                          Left
                                  Woodland Street




                                                                                                                                                                   Woodland Street
                                                                                                                                                                    2




                                                                                                        North
                                                                                                                                                  8
                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                  8
                                          144
                                            2
                                          146




                                                                                       Peak Hour Begins at 05:00 PM
                                                                 126
                                                                    1
                                                                 127
                                                          Right Thru
                                         In




                                                                                                                                                                         In
                                                                                                                                                      61

                                                                                                                                                      60


                                                                                                                                                                           82

                                                                                                                                                                           81




                                                                                       Cars
                                                                                                                                                        1




                                                                                                                                                                            1




                                                                                       Heavy Vehicles
                                                             14
                                                              1
                                                             15




                                                                                                                                              Left
                                   94
                                     1
                                   95
                                 Out




                                                                                                                                                                                 Total
                                                                                                                                                13

                                                                                                                                                13
                                                                                                                                                  0



                                                                                                                                                                                   236

                                                                                                                                                                                   233
                                                                                                                                                                                     3




                                                                                                Left Thru Right
                                                                                                  33   20    19
                                                                                                    0    0    1
                                                                                                  33   20    20


                                                                                               40       72      112
                                                                                                 1       1         2
                                                                                               41       73      114
                                                                                             Out      In       Total
                                                                                                 Hancock Street
                                                                                            PRECISION
                                                                                            D A T A
N/S: Central Street                                                                         INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                          File Name        : 91860 R
                                                                                        P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Woodland Street                                                               Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                       Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                     Site Code        : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                               Start Date       : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                               Page No          :1


                                                                               Groups Printed- Cars - Heavy Vehicles
                                    Central Street                           Woodland Street                     Central Street                              Woodland Street
                                     From North                                From East                          From South                                   From West
             Start Time       Right        Thru         Left             Right      Thru        Left       Right        Thru                   Left      Right      Thru           Left      Int. Total
           07:00 AM              6            0              0              1           3              1              1             0            2          0           14         13             41
           07:15 AM              5            1              0              0           9              0              1             1            3          5            8         27             60
           07:30 AM              7            3              0              0          18              2              0             2            8          3           20         33             96
           07:45 AM             30            0              1              1          19              0              0             4            2          3           32         27            119
               Total            48            4              1              2          49              3              2             7           15         11           74        100            316

           08:00 AM             10           4               0              0          11              1              0             2            4         10           22         36            100
           08:15 AM             15           1               1              3          23              0              0             5            9          9           32         24            122
           08:30 AM             22           2               1              1          26              1              0             4            4          7           29         25            122
           08:45 AM             20           4               0              2          22              1              0             1            5          0           13         24             92
               Total            67          11               2              6          82              3              0            12           22         26           96        109            436

      Grand Total             115           15            3                 8       131               6              2           19           37           37         170        209             752
        Apprch %              86.5        11.3          2.3               5.5       90.3            4.1            3.4          32.8         63.8          8.9        40.9       50.2
          Total %             15.3           2          0.4               1.1       17.4            0.8            0.3           2.5          4.9          4.9        22.6       27.8
            Cars              115           14            3                 7       125               6              2           19           37           37         170        209            744
          % Cars              100         93.3         100               87.5       95.4            100           100           100          100          100         100        100            98.9
   Heavy Vehicles                0           1            0                 1          6              0              0             0            0            0           0          0              8
 % Heavy Vehicles                0         6.7            0              12.5        4.6              0              0             0            0            0           0          0            1.1




                               Central Street                             Woodland Street                                 Central Street                         Woodland Street
                                From North                                  From East                                      From South                              From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru       Left App. Total         Right     Thru     Left App. Total          Right        Thru      Left   App. Total   Right     Thru     Left App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
    07:45 AM        30       0        1      31        1                     19         0           20          0         4          2            6        3       32       27         62        119
     08:00 AM       10       4        0      14        0                     11         1           12          0         2          4            6       10       22       36         68        100
     08:15 AM       15       1        1      17        3                     23         0           26          0         5          9           14        9       32       24         65        122
     08:30 AM       22       2        1      25        1                     26         1           28          0         4          4            8        7       29       25         61        122
 Total Volume       77       7        3      87        5                     79         2           86          0        15         19           34       29      115      112        256        463
  % App. Total    88.5       8      3.4              5.8                   91.9       2.3                       0      44.1       55.9                  11.3     44.9     43.8
           PHF    .642    .438    .750     .702    .417                    .760     .500          .768       .000      .750       .528         .607     .725     .898     .778       .941       .949
           Cars     77       7        3      87        5                     75         2           82          0        15         19           34       29      115      112        256        459
       % Cars      100     100     100      100     100                    94.9      100          95.3          0       100        100          100      100      100      100        100       99.1
 Heavy Vehicles      0       0        0       0        0                      4         0            4          0         0          0            0        0        0        0          0          4
 % Heavy Vehicles    0       0        0       0        0                    5.1         0          4.7          0         0          0            0        0        0        0          0        0.9
                                                                                           PRECISION
                                                                                           D A T A
N/S: Central Street                                                                        INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                           File Name        : 91860 R
                                                                                       P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Woodland Street                                                              Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                      Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                     Site Code        : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                               Start Date       : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                               Page No          :1


                                                                                       Groups Printed- Cars
                                    Central Street                           Woodland Street                    Central Street                               Woodland Street
                                     From North                                From East                         From South                                    From West
             Start Time       Right        Thru         Left             Right      Thru       Left       Right        Thru                    Left      Right      Thru           Left      Int. Total
           07:00 AM              6            0              0              0          3              1              1              0            2          0           14         13             40
           07:15 AM              5            1              0              0          8              0              1              1            3          5            8         27             59
           07:30 AM              7            3              0              0         17              2              0              2            8          3           20         33             95
           07:45 AM             30            0              1              1         18              0              0              4            2          3           32         27            118
               Total            48            4              1              1         46              3              2              7           15         11           74        100            312

           08:00 AM             10           4               0              0         10              1              0              2            4         10           22         36             99
           08:15 AM             15           1               1              3         22              0              0              5            9          9           32         24            121
           08:30 AM             22           2               1              1         25              1              0              4            4          7           29         25            121
           08:45 AM             20           3               0              2         22              1              0              1            5          0           13         24             91
               Total            67          10               2              6         79              3              0             12           22         26           96        109            432

        Grand Total           115           14            3                 7       125               6               2          19           37           37         170        209             744
          Apprch %            87.1        10.6          2.3               5.1       90.6            4.3             3.4         32.8         63.8          8.9        40.9       50.2
           Total %            15.5         1.9          0.4               0.9       16.8            0.8             0.3          2.6            5            5        22.8       28.1




                               Central Street                             Woodland Street                                 Central Street                         Woodland Street
                                From North                                  From East                                      From South                              From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru       Left App. Total         Right     Thru     Left App. Total         Right         Thru      Left   App. Total   Right     Thru     Left App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
    07:45 AM       30        0       1       31       1                      18        0           19          0         4           2            6        3       32       27         62        118
    08:00 AM       10        4       0       14       0                      10        1           11          0         2           4            6       10       22       36         68         99
    08:15 AM       15        1       1       17       3                      22        0           25          0         5           9           14        9       32       24         65        121
    08:30 AM       22        2       1       25       1                      25        1           27          0         4           4            8        7       29       25         61        121
 Total Volume      77        7       3       87       5                      75        2           82          0        15          19           34       29      115      112        256        459
 % App. Total    88.5        8     3.4              6.1                    91.5      2.4                       0      44.1        55.9                  11.3     44.9     43.8
          PHF    .642     .438    .750     .702    .417                    .750     .500         .759       .000      .750        .528         .607     .725     .898     .778       .941       .948
                                                                                             PRECISION
                                                                                             D A T A
N/S: Central Street                                                                          INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                            File Name        : 91860 R
                                                                                        P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Woodland Street                                                               Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                       Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                        Site Code        : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                                  Start Date       : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                                  Page No          :1


                                                                                   Groups Printed- Heavy Vehicles
                                    Central Street                           Woodland Street                     Central Street                              Woodland Street
                                     From North                                From East                          From South                                   From West
             Start Time       Right        Thru         Left             Right      Thru         Left      Right        Thru                   Left      Right      Thru              Left       Int. Total
           07:00 AM              0            0              0              1            0             0              0             0             0             0           0           0                1
           07:15 AM              0            0              0              0            1             0              0             0             0             0           0           0                1
           07:30 AM              0            0              0              0            1             0              0             0             0             0           0           0                1
           07:45 AM              0            0              0              0            1             0              0             0             0             0           0           0                1
               Total             0            0              0              1            3             0              0             0             0             0           0           0                4

           08:00 AM              0            0              0              0            1             0              0             0             0             0           0           0                1
           08:15 AM              0            0              0              0            1             0              0             0             0             0           0           0                1
           08:30 AM              0            0              0              0            1             0              0             0             0             0           0           0                1
           08:45 AM              0            1              0              0            0             0              0             0             0             0           0           0                1
               Total             0            1              0              0            3             0              0             0             0             0           0           0                4

        Grand Total              0           1               0              1          6               0              0             0             0             0           0           0                8
          Apprch %               0        100                0           14.3       85.7               0              0             0             0             0           0           0
           Total %               0        12.5               0           12.5        75                0              0             0             0             0           0           0




                               Central Street                             Woodland Street                                 Central Street                            Woodland Street
                                From North                                  From East                                      From South                                 From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru       Left App. Total         Right     Thru     Left App. Total          Right        Thru      Left   App. Total   Right        Thru     Left App. Total    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:00 AM
    07:00 AM         0       0       0        0       1                       0        0              1         0         0          0             0       0           0        0            0           1
    07:15 AM         0       0       0        0       0                       1        0              1         0         0          0             0       0           0        0            0           1
    07:30 AM         0       0       0        0       0                       1        0              1         0         0          0             0       0           0        0            0           1
    07:45 AM         0       0       0        0       0                       1        0              1         0         0          0             0       0           0        0            0           1
 Total Volume        0       0       0        0       1                       3        0              4         0         0          0             0       0           0        0            0           4
 % App. Total        0       0       0               25                      75        0                        0         0          0                     0           0        0
          PHF    .000     .000    .000     .000    .250                    .750     .000        1.000        .000      .000       .000         .000     .000        .000     .000       .000       1.000
                                                                                  PRECISION
                                                                                  D A T A
N/S: Central Street                                                               INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                            File Name        : 91860 R
                                                                               P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Woodland Street                                                      Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                              Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                             Site Code        : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                       Start Date       : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                       Page No          :1


                                                                       Groups Printed- Peds and Bicycles
                             Central Street                      Woodland Street                      Central Street                                     Woodland Street
                              From North                           From East                           From South                                          From West
       Start Time    Right    Thru       Left   Peds     Right    Thru      Left    Peds     Right     Thru       Left              Peds         Right    Thru       Left    Peds         Int. Total
      07:00 AM          0        0         0       2         0        0           0            0           0         0        0         6           0         0        0         0                8
      07:15 AM          0        0         0       0         0        0           0            0           0         0        0         2           0         0        0         0                2
      07:30 AM          0        0         0       4         0        3           0            0           0         0        0         3           0         1        0         1               12
      07:45 AM          0        0         0       1         0        0           0            0           0         0        0         5           0         0        0         0                6
          Total         0        0         0       7         0        3           0            0           0         0        0        16           0         1        0         1               28

      08:00 AM          0        0         0       1         0        0           0            0           0         0        0         7           0         0        0         0                8
      08:15 AM          0        0         0       7         0        1           0            1           0         0        0        15           1         1        1         2               29
      08:30 AM          0        0         0       5         0        1           0            0           0         0        0         6           0         3        0         1               16
      08:45 AM          0        0         0       0         0        0           0            2           0         0        0         6           0         1        0         1               10
          Total         0        0         0      13         0        2           0            3           0         0        0        34           1         5        1         4               63

   Grand Total          0        0         0     20          0       5            0         3              0         0        0      50             1         6        1        5                91
     Apprch %           0        0         0    100          0    62.5            0      37.5              0         0        0     100           7.7      46.2      7.7     38.5
      Total %           0        0         0     22          0     5.5            0       3.3              0         0        0     54.9          1.1       6.6      1.1      5.5




                            Central Street                     Woodland Street                                    Central Street                           Woodland Street
                             From North                           From East                                         From South                                From West
   Start Time Right Thru        Left Peds App. Total Right   Thru    Left Peds        App. Total   Right       Thru    Left Peds   App. Total   Right    Thru    Left Peds   App. Total    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
  08:00 AM      0       0     0     1        1     0  0    0    0                            0  0    0    0    7                         7   0    0    0    0                      0             8
  08:15 AM      0       0     0     7        7     0  1    0    1                            2  0    0    0   15                        15   1    1    1    2                      5            29
  08:30 AM      0       0     0     5        5     0  1    0    0                            1  0    0    0    6                         6   0    3    0    1                      4            16
  08:45 AM      0       0     0     0        0     0  0    0    2                            2  0    0    0    6                         6   0    1    0    1                      2            10
 Total Volume   0       0     0    13      13      0  2    0    3                            5  0    0    0   34                        34   1    5    1    4                     11            63
 % App. Total   0       0     0 100                0 40    0   60                               0    0    0 100                            9.1 45.5  9.1 36.4
        PHF .000 .000 .000 .464          .464 .000 .500 .000 .375                       .625 .000 .000 .000 .567                     .567 .250 .417 .250 .500                  .550          .543
                                                                                                  PRECISION
                                                                                                  D A T A
N/S: Central Street                                                                               INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                                  File Name       : 91860 R
                                                                                              P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Woodland Street                                                                     Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                             Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                                   Site Code       : 10865.00
City,State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                                             Start Date      : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                                             Page No         :1



                               Central Street                                    Woodland Street                              Central Street                              Woodland Street
                                From North                                         From East                                   From South                                   From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru       Left App. Total                 Right    Thru     Left App. Total         Right      Thru      Left   App. Total      Right       Thru     Left App. Total       Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
    07:45 AM        30       0        1      31        1                           19         0           20          0         4        2            6           3           32              27    62        119
     08:00 AM       10       4        0      14        0                           11         1           12          0         2        4            6          10           22              36    68        100
     08:15 AM       15       1        1      17        3                           23         0           26          0         5        9           14           9           32              24    65        122
     08:30 AM       22       2        1      25        1                           26         1           28          0         4        4            8           7           29              25    61        122
 Total Volume       77       7        3      87        5                           79         2           86          0        15       19           34          29          115             112   256        463
  % App. Total    88.5       8      3.4              5.8                         91.9       2.3                       0      44.1     55.9                     11.3         44.9            43.8
           PHF    .642    .438    .750     .702    .417                          .760     .500          .768       .000      .750     .528         .607        .725         .898            .778   .941      .949
           Cars     77       7        3      87        5                           75         2           82          0        15       19           34          29          115             112    256       459
       % Cars      100     100     100      100     100                          94.9      100          95.3          0       100      100          100         100          100             100    100      99.1
 Heavy Vehicles      0       0        0       0        0                            4         0            4          0         0        0            0           0            0               0      0         4
 % Heavy Vehicles    0       0        0       0        0                          5.1         0          4.7          0         0        0            0           0            0               0      0       0.9

                                                                                                   Central Street
                                                                                              Out       In        Total
                                                                                               132         87      219
                                                                                                  0         0         0
                                                                                               132         87      219


                                                                                                     77     7         3
                                                                                                      0     0         0
                                                                                                     77     7         3
                                                                                                  Right Thru      Left




                                                                                         Peak Hour Data
                                                    427
                                                       4
                                                    431
                                                   Total




                                                                                                                                                                   Out
                                                            112
                                                               0
                                                            112




                                                                                                                                                                    118

                                                                                                                                                                    118
                                                                                                                                                 Right Thru
                                                           Left
                                   Woodland Street




                                                                                                                                                                      Woodland Street
                                                                                                                                                                       0




                                                                                                         North
                                                                                                                                                     5
                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                     5
                                           256
                                             0
                                           256




                                                                                        Peak Hour Begins at 07:45 AM
                                                                  115
                                                                     0
                                                                  115
                                                           Right Thru
                                          In




                                                                                                                                                                            In
                                                                                                                                                         79

                                                                                                                                                         75


                                                                                                                                                                              86

                                                                                                                                                                              82




                                                                                        Cars
                                                                                                                                                           4




                                                                                                                                                                               4




                                                                                        Heavy Vehicles
                                                              29
                                                               0
                                                              29




                                                                                                                                                 Left
                                  171
                                     4
                                  175
                                 Out




                                                                                                                                                                                    Total
                                                                                                                                                     2
                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                     2


                                                                                                                                                                                      204

                                                                                                                                                                                      200
                                                                                                                                                                                        4




                                                                                                  Left Thru Right
                                                                                                    19   15     0
                                                                                                      0    0    0
                                                                                                    19   15     0


                                                                                                38         34        72
                                                                                                  0         0         0
                                                                                                38         34        72
                                                                                              Out       In        Total
                                                                                                   Central Street
                                                                                            PRECISION
                                                                                            D A T A
N/S: Central Street                                                                         INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                          File Name        : 91860 RR
                                                                                        P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Woodland Street                                                               Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                       Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                     Site Code        : 10865.00
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                              Start Date       : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                               Page No          :1


                                                                               Groups Printed- Cars - Heavy Vehicles
                                    Central Street                           Woodland Street                     Central Street                              Woodland Street
                                     From North                                From East                          From South                                   From West
             Start Time       Right        Thru         Left             Right      Thru        Left       Right        Thru                   Left      Right      Thru           Left      Int. Total
           04:00 PM             14            3              2              1          15              1              1             4             1         6            27        12             87
           04:15 PM             20            2              1              0          15              0              1             1             1         4            20         8             73
           04:30 PM             17            1              1              1          21              2              0             1             1         0            26         9             80
           04:45 PM             15            1              1              1          13              1              0             3             1         2            36        23             97
               Total            66            7              5              3          64              4              2             9             4        12           109        52            337

           05:00 PM             18           4           1                  0          21              1              0             3            5          3            38        34            128
           05:15 PM             23           3           5                  0          17              0              0             1            3          8            29        26            115
           05:30 PM             21           3           4                  0          24              1              0             2            5          2            39        31            132
           05:45 PM             26           1           2                  0          26              3              0             1            1          8            31        35            134
               Total            88          11          12                  0          88              5              0             7           14         21           137       126            509

      Grand Total             154           18          17                  3       152               9              2           16            18          33         246        178             846
        Apprch %              81.5          9.5          9                1.8       92.7            5.5            5.6          44.4           50          7.2        53.8       38.9
          Total %             18.2          2.1          2                0.4        18             1.1            0.2           1.9           2.1         3.9        29.1        21
            Cars              154            18         15                  3       150               9              2           16            18          33         245        178            841
          % Cars              100          100        88.2               100        98.7            100           100           100           100         100         99.6       100            99.4
   Heavy Vehicles                0            0          2                  0          2              0              0             0             0           0           1          0              5
 % Heavy Vehicles                0            0       11.8                  0        1.3              0              0             0             0           0         0.4          0            0.6




                               Central Street                             Woodland Street                                 Central Street                         Woodland Street
                                From North                                  From East                                      From South                              From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru       Left App. Total         Right     Thru     Left App. Total          Right        Thru      Left   App. Total   Right     Thru     Left App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
    05:00 PM        18        4      1       23       0                      21         1           22          0         3          5            8        3       38       34         75        128
     05:15 PM       23        3      5       31       0                      17         0           17          0         1          3            4        8       29       26         63        115
     05:30 PM       21        3      4       28       0                      24         1           25          0         2          5            7        2       39       31         72        132
     05:45 PM       26        1      2        29      0                      26         3           29          0         1          1            2        8       31       35         74        134
 Total Volume       88       11     12      111       0                      88         5           93          0         7         14           21       21      137      126        284        509
  % App. Total    79.3      9.9   10.8                0                    94.6       5.4                       0      33.3       66.7                   7.4     48.2     44.4
           PHF    .846    .688    .600     .895    .000                    .846     .417          .802       .000      .583       .700         .656     .656     .878     .900       .947       .950
           Cars     88       11     10      109       0                      86         5           91          0         7         14           21       21      137      126        284        505
       % Cars      100     100    83.3     98.2       0                    97.7      100          97.8          0       100        100          100      100      100      100        100       99.2
 Heavy Vehicles      0        0      2         2      0                       2         0            2          0         0          0            0        0        0        0          0          4
 % Heavy Vehicles    0        0   16.7       1.8      0                     2.3         0          2.2          0         0          0            0        0        0        0          0        0.8
                                                                                           PRECISION
                                                                                           D A T A
N/S: Central Street                                                                        INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                           File Name        : 91860 RR
                                                                                       P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Woodland Street                                                              Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                      Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                     Site Code        : 10865.00
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                              Start Date       : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                               Page No          :1


                                                                                       Groups Printed- Cars
                                    Central Street                           Woodland Street                    Central Street                               Woodland Street
                                     From North                                From East                         From South                                    From West
             Start Time       Right        Thru         Left             Right      Thru       Left       Right        Thru                    Left      Right      Thru           Left      Int. Total
           04:00 PM             14            3              2              1         15              1              1              4             1         6            27        12             87
           04:15 PM             20            2              1              0         15              0              1              1             1         4            20         8             73
           04:30 PM             17            1              1              1         21              2              0              1             1         0            25         9             79
           04:45 PM             15            1              1              1         13              1              0              3             1         2            36        23             97
               Total            66            7              5              3         64              4              2              9             4        12           108        52            336

           05:00 PM             18           4           1                  0         21              1              0              3            5          3            38        34            128
           05:15 PM             23           3           4                  0         17              0              0              1            3          8            29        26            114
           05:30 PM             21           3           3                  0         22              1              0              2            5          2            39        31            129
           05:45 PM             26           1           2                  0         26              3              0              1            1          8            31        35            134
               Total            88          11          10                  0         86              5              0              7           14         21           137       126            505

        Grand Total           154           18          15                  3       150               9               2          16            18          33         245        178             841
          Apprch %            82.4          9.6           8               1.9       92.6            5.6             5.6         44.4           50          7.2        53.7        39
           Total %            18.3          2.1         1.8               0.4       17.8            1.1             0.2          1.9           2.1         3.9        29.1       21.2




                               Central Street                             Woodland Street                                 Central Street                         Woodland Street
                                From North                                  From East                                      From South                              From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru       Left App. Total         Right     Thru     Left App. Total         Right         Thru      Left   App. Total   Right     Thru     Left App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
    05:00 PM       18        4       1       23       0                      21        1           22          0         3           5            8        3       38       34         75        128
    05:15 PM       23        3       4       30       0                      17        0           17          0         1           3            4        8       29       26         63        114
    05:30 PM       21        3       3       27       0                      22        1           23          0         2           5            7        2       39       31         72        129
    05:45 PM       26        1       2       29       0                      26        3           29          0         1           1            2        8       31       35         74        134
 Total Volume      88       11      10      109       0                      86        5           91          0         7          14           21       21      137      126        284        505
 % App. Total    80.7     10.1     9.2                0                    94.5      5.5                       0      33.3        66.7                   7.4     48.2     44.4
          PHF    .846     .688    .625     .908    .000                    .827     .417         .784       .000      .583        .700         .656     .656     .878     .900       .947       .942
                                                                                    PRECISION
                                                                                    D A T A
N/S: Frontage Road                                                                  INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                     File Name         : 112468 A
                                                                                 P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E: Recreation Road                                                          Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                        Site Code         : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                 Start Date        : 3/15/2011
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                  Page No           :1


                                                                          Groups Printed- Cars - Heavy Vehicles
                                                  Frontage Road                            Recreation Road                           Frontage Road
                                                    From North                                From East                               From South
                           Start Time              Thru                    Left               Thru                        Left        Right                Thru               Int. Total
                          07:00 AM                     0                     0                      0                       0             20               387                    407
                          07:15 AM                     0                     0                      0                       0             13               426                    439
                          07:30 AM                     0                     0                      0                       0             16               401                    417
                          07:45 AM                     0                     0                      0                       0             15               407                    422
                              Total                    0                     0                      0                       0             64              1621                   1685

                          08:00 AM                     0                     0                      2                       0             14               446                    462
                          08:15 AM                     0                     0                      2                       0             24               487                    513
                          08:30 AM                     0                     0                      0                       0             19               488                    507
                          08:45 AM                     0                     0                      0                       0             12               472                    484
                              Total                    0                     0                      4                       0             69              1893                   1966

                     Grand Total                       0                     0                      4                       0         133                 3514                   3651
                       Apprch %                        0                     0                   100                        0          3.6                 96.4
                         Total %                       0                     0                    0.1                       0          3.6                 96.2
                           Cars                        0                     0                      4                       0         132                 3352                   3488
                         % Cars                        0                     0                   100                        0         99.2                 95.4                   95.5
                  Heavy Vehicles                       0                     0                      0                       0            1                 162                    163
                % Heavy Vehicles                       0                     0                      0                       0          0.8                  4.6                    4.5




                                          Frontage Road                                 Recreation Road                                   Frontage Road
                                            From North                                    From East                                        From South
                Start Time         Thru          Left        App. Total            Thru         Left                 App. Total   Right          Thru       App. Total        Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
            08:00 AM              0           0                      0                2                0                     2       14          446               460            462
             08:15 AM             0           0                      0                2                0                     2      24           487               511            513
             08:30 AM             0           0                      0                0                0                     0       19          488               507            507
             08:45 AM             0           0                      0                0                0                     0       12          472               484            484
        Total Volume              0           0                      0                4                0                     4       69        1893               1962           1966
         % App. Total             0           0                                     100                0                            3.5         96.5
                  PHF          .000        .000                   .000             .500             .000                 .500     .719          .970               .960           .958
                  Cars            0           0                      0                4                0                    4        69        1811               1880           1884
               % Cars             0           0                      0              100                0                  100      100          95.7               95.8           95.8
       Heavy Vehicles             0           0                      0                0                0                    0         0           82                 82             82
     % Heavy Vehicles             0           0                      0                0                0                    0         0           4.3               4.2            4.2
                                                                                   PRECISION
                                                                                   D A T A
N/S: Frontage Road                                                                 INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                      File Name        : 112468 A
                                                                                P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E: Recreation Road                                                         Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                               Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                        Site Code        : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                 Start Date       : 3/15/2011
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                  Page No          :1


                                                                                  Groups Printed- Cars
                                                  Frontage Road                           Recreation Road                           Frontage Road
                                                    From North                                From East                              From South
                           Start Time              Thru                   Left               Thru                        Left        Right                 Thru              Int. Total
                          07:00 AM                     0                    0                      0                       0              19               371                   390
                          07:15 AM                     0                    0                      0                       0              13               402                   415
                          07:30 AM                     0                    0                      0                       0              16               376                   392
                          07:45 AM                     0                    0                      0                       0              15               392                   407
                              Total                    0                    0                      0                       0              63              1541                  1604

                          08:00 AM                     0                    0                      2                       0              14               426                   442
                          08:15 AM                     0                    0                      2                       0              24               468                   494
                          08:30 AM                     0                    0                      0                       0              19               470                   489
                          08:45 AM                     0                    0                      0                       0              12               447                   459
                              Total                    0                    0                      4                       0              69              1811                  1884

                       Grand Total                     0                    0                      4                       0             132              3352                  3488
                         Apprch %                      0                    0                   100                        0              3.8              96.2
                          Total %                      0                    0                    0.1                       0              3.8              96.1




                                          Frontage Road                                Recreation Road                                    Frontage Road
                                            From North                                   From East                                         From South
                Start Time         Thru          Left        App. Total           Thru         Left                 App. Total   Right           Thru       App. Total       Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
            08:00 AM              0           0                      0               2                0                     2      14             426              440           442
             08:15 AM             0           0                      0               2                0                     2      24             468              492           494
             08:30 AM             0           0                      0               0                0                     0      19             470              489           489
             08:45 AM             0           0                      0               0                0                     0      12             447              459           459
        Total Volume              0           0                      0               4                0                     4      69           1811              1880          1884
         % App. Total             0           0                                    100                0                           3.7            96.3
                  PHF          .000        .000                   .000            .500             .000                 .500     .719            .963             .955           .953
                                                                                   PRECISION
                                                                                   D A T A
N/S: Frontage Road                                                                 INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                    File Name         : 112468 A
                                                                                P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E: Recreation Road                                                         Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                               Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                      Site Code         : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                               Start Date        : 3/15/2011
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                Page No           :1


                                                                            Groups Printed- Heavy Vehicles
                                                  Frontage Road                           Recreation Road                           Frontage Road
                                                    From North                               From East                               From South
                           Start Time              Thru                   Left               Thru                        Left        Right                Thru              Int. Total
                          07:00 AM                     0                    0                      0                       0              1                16                     17
                          07:15 AM                     0                    0                      0                       0              0                24                     24
                          07:30 AM                     0                    0                      0                       0              0                25                     25
                          07:45 AM                     0                    0                      0                       0              0                15                     15
                              Total                    0                    0                      0                       0              1                80                     81

                          08:00 AM                     0                    0                      0                       0              0                20                     20
                          08:15 AM                     0                    0                      0                       0              0                19                     19
                          08:30 AM                     0                    0                      0                       0              0                18                     18
                          08:45 AM                     0                    0                      0                       0              0                25                     25
                              Total                    0                    0                      0                       0              0                82                     82

                       Grand Total                     0                    0                      0                       0               1              162                    163
                         Apprch %                      0                    0                      0                       0             0.6              99.4
                          Total %                      0                    0                      0                       0             0.6              99.4




                                          Frontage Road                                Recreation Road                                    Frontage Road
                                            From North                                   From East                                         From South
                Start Time         Thru          Left        App. Total           Thru         Left                 App. Total   Right           Thru      App. Total       Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:15 AM
            07:15 AM              0           0                      0               0                0                     0       0            24               24              24
            07:30 AM              0           0                      0               0                0                     0       0            25               25              25
             07:45 AM             0           0                      0               0                0                     0       0            15               15              15
             08:00 AM             0           0                      0               0                0                     0       0            20               20              20
        Total Volume              0           0                      0               0                0                     0       0            84               84              84
        % App. Total              0           0                                      0                0                             0           100
                  PHF          .000        .000                   .000            .000             .000                 .000     .000          .840              .840           .840
                                                                                  PRECISION
                                                                                  D A T A
N/S: Frontage Road                                                                INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                            File Name             : 112468 A
                                                                               P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E: Recreation Road                                                        Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                              Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                             Site Code             : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                      Start Date            : 3/15/2011
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                       Page No               :1



                                          Frontage Road                               Recreation Road                                    Frontage Road
                                            From North                                  From East                                         From South
                Start Time         Thru          Left        App. Total          Thru         Left                 App. Total    Right          Thru                  App. Total       Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
            08:00 AM              0           0                      0              2                 0                    2        14          446                        460             462
             08:15 AM             0           0                      0              2                 0                    2       24           487                        511             513
             08:30 AM             0           0                      0              0                 0                    0        19          488                        507             507
             08:45 AM             0           0                      0              0                 0                    0        12          472                        484             484
        Total Volume              0           0                      0              4                 0                    4        69        1893                        1962            1966
         % App. Total             0           0                                   100                 0                            3.5         96.5
                  PHF          .000        .000                  .000            .500              .000                .500      .719          .970                        .960            .958
                  Cars            0           0                     0               4                 0                   4         69        1811                        1880            1884
               % Cars             0           0                     0             100                 0                 100       100          95.7                        95.8            95.8
       Heavy Vehicles             0           0                     0               0                 0                   0          0           82                          82              82
     % Heavy Vehicles             0           0                     0               0                 0                   0          0           4.3                        4.2             4.2

                                                                                   Frontage Road
                                                                               Out       In      Total
                                                                               1815         0    1815
                                                                                 82         0       82
                                                                               1897         0    1897


                                                                                            0       0
                                                                                            0       0
                                                                                            0       0
                                                                                        Thru    Left




                                                                          Peak Hour Data                                                     Out
                                                                                                                                               69

                                                                                                                                               69

                                                                                                                                                Recreation Road
                                                                                                                                                 0




                                                                                           North
                                                                                                                                Thru




                                                                            Peak Hour Begins at 08:00 AM
                                                                                                                                    4
                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                    4




                                                                                                                                                      In




                                                                            Cars
                                                                                                                                Left




                                                                                                                                                          4
                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                          4




                                                                            Heavy Vehicles
                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                    0




                                                                                                                                                              Total
                                                                                                                                                                 73

                                                                                                                                                                 73
                                                                                                                                                                  0




                                                                                        Thru Right
                                                                                        1811    69
                                                                                          82     0
                                                                                        1893    69


                                                                                    0   1880     1880
                                                                                    0      82       82
                                                                                    0   1962     1962
                                                                               Out       In      Total
                                                                                   Frontage Road
                                                                                    PRECISION
                                                                                    D A T A
N/S: Frontage Road                                                                  INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                       File Name         : 112468 AA
                                                                                 P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E: Recreation Road                                                          Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                          Site Code         : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                   Start Date        : 3/15/2011
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                    Page No           :1


                                                                          Groups Printed- Cars - Heavy Vehicles
                                                  Frontage Road                            Recreation Road                           Frontage Road
                                                    From North                                From East                               From South
                           Start Time              Thru                    Left               Thru                        Left        Right                  Thru               Int. Total
                          04:00 PM                     0                     0                      0                       0               9                517                    526
                          04:15 PM                     0                     0                      0                       0              12                541                    553
                          04:30 PM                     0                     0                      5                       0               7                479                    491
                          04:45 PM                     0                     0                      3                       0               3                535                    541
                              Total                    0                     0                      8                       0              31               2072                   2111

                          05:00 PM                     0                     0                      0                       0               5                574                    579
                          05:15 PM                     0                     0                      5                       0              11                554                    570
                          05:30 PM                     0                     0                      0                       0               9                536                    545
                          05:45 PM                     0                     0                      2                       0              10                477                    489
                              Total                    0                     0                      7                       0              35               2141                   2183

                     Grand Total                       0                     0                    15                        0              66               4213                   4294
                       Apprch %                        0                     0                   100                        0              1.5               98.5
                         Total %                       0                     0                    0.3                       0              1.5               98.1
                           Cars                        0                     0                    15                        0              66               4107                   4188
                         % Cars                        0                     0                   100                        0             100                97.5                   97.5
                  Heavy Vehicles                       0                     0                      0                       0                0               106                    106
                % Heavy Vehicles                       0                     0                      0                       0                0                2.5                    2.5




                                          Frontage Road                                 Recreation Road                                    Frontage Road
                                            From North                                    From East                                         From South
                Start Time         Thru          Left        App. Total            Thru         Left                 App. Total   Right           Thru        App. Total        Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:45 PM
            04:45 PM              0           0                      0                3                0                     3        3            535               538            541
            05:00 PM              0           0                      0                0                0                     0        5            574               579            579
             05:15 PM             0           0                      0                5                0                     5      11             554               565            570
             05:30 PM             0           0                      0                0                0                     0        9            536               545            545
        Total Volume              0           0                      0                8                0                     8       28          2199               2227           2235
         % App. Total             0           0                                     100                0                            1.3           98.7
                  PHF          .000        .000                   .000             .400             .000                 .400     .636            .958               .962           .965
                  Cars            0           0                      0                8                0                    8        28          2140               2168           2176
               % Cars             0           0                      0              100                0                  100      100            97.3               97.4           97.4
       Heavy Vehicles             0           0                      0                0                0                    0         0             59                 59             59
     % Heavy Vehicles             0           0                      0                0                0                    0         0             2.7               2.6            2.6
                                                                                   PRECISION
                                                                                   D A T A
N/S: Frontage Road                                                                 INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                     File Name         : 112468 AA
                                                                                P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E: Recreation Road                                                         Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                               Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                       Site Code         : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                Start Date        : 3/15/2011
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                 Page No           :1


                                                                                  Groups Printed- Cars
                                                  Frontage Road                           Recreation Road                           Frontage Road
                                                    From North                                From East                              From South
                           Start Time              Thru                   Left               Thru                        Left        Right                 Thru              Int. Total
                          04:00 PM                     0                    0                      0                       0              9                504                   513
                          04:15 PM                     0                    0                      0                       0             12                527                   539
                          04:30 PM                     0                    0                      5                       0              7                465                   477
                          04:45 PM                     0                    0                      3                       0              3                517                   523
                              Total                    0                    0                      8                       0             31               2013                  2052

                          05:00 PM                     0                    0                      0                       0              5                560                   565
                          05:15 PM                     0                    0                      5                       0             11                537                   553
                          05:30 PM                     0                    0                      0                       0              9                526                   535
                          05:45 PM                     0                    0                      2                       0             10                471                   483
                              Total                    0                    0                      7                       0             35               2094                  2136

                       Grand Total                     0                    0                    15                        0             66               4107                  4188
                         Apprch %                      0                    0                   100                        0             1.6               98.4
                          Total %                      0                    0                    0.4                       0             1.6               98.1




                                          Frontage Road                                Recreation Road                                    Frontage Road
                                            From North                                   From East                                         From South
                Start Time         Thru          Left        App. Total           Thru         Left                 App. Total   Right           Thru       App. Total       Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:45 PM
            04:45 PM              0           0                      0               3                0                     3       3            517               520           523
            05:00 PM              0           0                      0               0                0                     0       5            560               565           565
             05:15 PM             0           0                      0               5                0                     5      11            537               548           553
             05:30 PM             0           0                      0               0                0                     0       9            526               535           535
        Total Volume              0           0                      0               8                0                     8      28          2140               2168          2176
         % App. Total             0           0                                    100                0                           1.3           98.7
                  PHF          .000        .000                   .000            .400             .000                 .400     .636           .955              .959           .963
                                                                                   PRECISION
                                                                                   D A T A
N/S: Frontage Road                                                                 INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                   File Name         : 112468 AA
                                                                                P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E: Recreation Road                                                         Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                               Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                     Site Code         : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                              Start Date        : 3/15/2011
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                               Page No           :1


                                                                            Groups Printed- Heavy Vehicles
                                                  Frontage Road                           Recreation Road                           Frontage Road
                                                    From North                               From East                               From South
                           Start Time              Thru                   Left               Thru                        Left        Right               Thru              Int. Total
                          04:00 PM                     0                    0                      0                       0             0                13                     13
                          04:15 PM                     0                    0                      0                       0             0                14                     14
                          04:30 PM                     0                    0                      0                       0             0                14                     14
                          04:45 PM                     0                    0                      0                       0             0                18                     18
                              Total                    0                    0                      0                       0             0                59                     59

                          05:00 PM                     0                    0                      0                       0             0                14                     14
                          05:15 PM                     0                    0                      0                       0             0                17                     17
                          05:30 PM                     0                    0                      0                       0             0                10                     10
                          05:45 PM                     0                    0                      0                       0             0                 6                      6
                              Total                    0                    0                      0                       0             0                47                     47

                       Grand Total                     0                    0                      0                       0             0               106                    106
                         Apprch %                      0                    0                      0                       0             0               100
                          Total %                      0                    0                      0                       0             0               100




                                          Frontage Road                                Recreation Road                                   Frontage Road
                                            From North                                   From East                                        From South
                Start Time         Thru          Left        App. Total           Thru         Left                 App. Total   Right          Thru      App. Total       Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:30 PM
            04:30 PM              0           0                      0               0                0                     0       0           14               14              14
            04:45 PM              0           0                      0               0                0                     0       0           18               18              18
             05:00 PM             0           0                      0               0                0                     0       0           14               14              14
             05:15 PM             0           0                      0               0                0                     0       0           17               17              17
        Total Volume              0           0                      0               0                0                     0       0           63               63              63
        % App. Total              0           0                                      0                0                             0          100
                  PHF          .000        .000                   .000            .000             .000                 .000     .000         .875              .875           .875
                                                                                  PRECISION
                                                                                  D A T A
N/S: Frontage Road                                                                INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                           File Name              : 112468 AA
                                                                               P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E: Recreation Road                                                        Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                              Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                            Site Code              : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                     Start Date             : 3/15/2011
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                      Page No                :1



                                          Frontage Road                               Recreation Road                                    Frontage Road
                                            From North                                  From East                                         From South
                Start Time         Thru          Left        App. Total          Thru         Left                 App. Total    Right          Thru                  App. Total       Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:45 PM
            04:45 PM              0           0                      0              3                 0                    3         3          535                        538             541
            05:00 PM              0           0                      0              0                 0                    0         5          574                        579             579
             05:15 PM             0           0                      0              5                 0                    5       11           554                        565             570
             05:30 PM             0           0                      0              0                 0                    0         9          536                        545             545
        Total Volume              0           0                      0              8                 0                    8        28        2199                        2227            2235
         % App. Total             0           0                                   100                 0                            1.3         98.7
                  PHF          .000        .000                  .000            .400              .000                .400      .636          .958                        .962            .965
                  Cars            0           0                     0               8                 0                   8         28        2140                        2168            2176
               % Cars             0           0                     0             100                 0                 100       100          97.3                        97.4            97.4
       Heavy Vehicles             0           0                     0               0                 0                   0          0           59                          59              59
     % Heavy Vehicles             0           0                     0               0                 0                   0          0           2.7                        2.6             2.6

                                                                                   Frontage Road
                                                                               Out       In      Total
                                                                               2148         0    2148
                                                                                 59         0       59
                                                                               2207         0    2207


                                                                                            0       0
                                                                                            0       0
                                                                                            0       0
                                                                                        Thru    Left




                                                                          Peak Hour Data                                                     Out
                                                                                                                                               28

                                                                                                                                               28

                                                                                                                                                Recreation Road
                                                                                                                                                 0




                                                                                           North
                                                                                                                                Thru




                                                                            Peak Hour Begins at 04:45 PM
                                                                                                                                    8
                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                    8




                                                                                                                                                      In




                                                                            Cars
                                                                                                                                Left




                                                                                                                                                          8
                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                          8




                                                                            Heavy Vehicles
                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                    0




                                                                                                                                                              Total
                                                                                                                                                                 36

                                                                                                                                                                 36
                                                                                                                                                                  0




                                                                                        Thru Right
                                                                                        2140    28
                                                                                          59     0
                                                                                        2199    28


                                                                                    0   2168     2168
                                                                                    0      59       59
                                                                                    0   2227     2227
                                                                               Out       In      Total
                                                                                   Frontage Road
                                                                                             PRECISION
                                                                                             D A T A
N/S: Central Street                                                                          INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                            File Name        : 91860 RR
                                                                                        P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Woodland Street                                                               Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                       Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                        Site Code        : 10865.00
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                                 Start Date       : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                                  Page No          :1


                                                                                   Groups Printed- Heavy Vehicles
                                    Central Street                           Woodland Street                     Central Street                              Woodland Street
                                     From North                                From East                          From South                                   From West
             Start Time       Right        Thru         Left             Right      Thru         Left      Right        Thru                   Left      Right      Thru              Left       Int. Total
           04:00 PM              0            0              0              0            0             0              0             0             0             0            0          0                0
           04:15 PM              0            0              0              0            0             0              0             0             0             0            0          0                0
           04:30 PM              0            0              0              0            0             0              0             0             0             0            1          0                1
           04:45 PM              0            0              0              0            0             0              0             0             0             0            0          0                0
               Total             0            0              0              0            0             0              0             0             0             0            1          0                1

           05:00 PM              0            0              0              0            0             0              0             0             0             0            0          0                0
           05:15 PM              0            0              1              0            0             0              0             0             0             0            0          0                1
           05:30 PM              0            0              1              0            2             0              0             0             0             0            0          0                3
           05:45 PM              0            0              0              0            0             0              0             0             0             0            0          0                0
               Total             0            0              2              0            2             0              0             0             0             0            0          0                4

        Grand Total              0            0          2                  0          2               0              0             0             0             0            1          0                5
          Apprch %               0            0        100                  0        100               0              0             0             0             0          100          0
           Total %               0            0         40                  0         40               0              0             0             0             0           20          0




                               Central Street                             Woodland Street                                 Central Street                            Woodland Street
                                From North                                  From East                                      From South                                 From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru       Left App. Total         Right     Thru     Left App. Total          Right        Thru      Left   App. Total   Right        Thru     Left App. Total    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:45 PM
    04:45 PM         0       0       0        0       0                       0        0              0         0         0          0             0       0           0        0            0           0
    05:00 PM         0       0       0        0       0                       0        0              0         0         0          0             0       0           0        0            0           0
    05:15 PM         0       0       1        1       0                       0        0              0         0         0          0             0       0           0        0            0           1
    05:30 PM         0       0       1        1       0                       2        0              2         0         0          0             0       0           0        0            0           3
 Total Volume        0       0       2        2       0                       2        0              2         0         0          0             0       0           0        0            0           4
 % App. Total        0       0     100                0                     100        0                        0         0          0                     0           0        0
          PHF    .000     .000    .500     .500    .000                    .250     .000          .250       .000      .000       .000         .000     .000        .000     .000       .000        .333
                                                                                  PRECISION
                                                                                  D A T A
N/S: Central Street                                                               INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                               File Name     : 91860 RR
                                                                               P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Woodland Street                                                      Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                              Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                Site Code     : 10865.00
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                         Start Date    : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                          Page No       :1


                                                                       Groups Printed- Peds and Bicycles
                             Central Street                      Woodland Street                      Central Street                                      Woodland Street
                              From North                           From East                           From South                                           From West
       Start Time    Right    Thru       Left   Peds     Right    Thru      Left    Peds     Right     Thru       Left              Peds         Right     Thru       Left   Peds         Int. Total
      04:00 PM          0        0         0       3         0        0           0            0           0         0        0          6          0           0       0        0                9
      04:15 PM          0        0         0       0         0        0           0            0           0         0        0          0          0           0       1        0                1
      04:30 PM          0        0         0       2         0        1           0            0           0         0        0          2          0           0       0        0                5
      04:45 PM          0        0         0       2         0        0           0            0           0         0        2          0          0           0       0        1                5
          Total         0        0         0       7         0        1           0            0           0         0        2          8          0           0       1        1               20

      05:00 PM          0        0         0       0         0        1           0            0           0         0        1          0          1           0       0        0                3
      05:15 PM          0        0         0       1         0        1           0            1           0         0        0          2          0           0       0        0                5
      05:30 PM          0        0         0       4         0        0           0            0           0         0        0          3          1           1       0        0                9
      05:45 PM          0        0         0       1         0        1           0            0           0         0        0          2          0           0       0        0                4
          Total         0        0         0       6         0        3           0            1           0         0        1          7          2           1       0        0               21

   Grand Total          0        0         0     13          0        4           0          1             0         0       3       15             2          1        1       1                41
     Apprch %           0        0         0    100          0      80            0        20              0         0    16.7      83.3           40        20       20      20
      Total %           0        0         0    31.7         0      9.8           0        2.4             0         0     7.3      36.6          4.9        2.4      2.4     2.4




                            Central Street                     Woodland Street                                    Central Street                           Woodland Street
                             From North                           From East                                         From South                                From West
   Start Time Right Thru        Left Peds App. Total Right   Thru    Left Peds        App. Total   Right       Thru    Left Peds   App. Total   Right    Thru    Left Peds   App. Total    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:45 PM
  04:45 PM      0       0     0     2        2     0    0  0    0                            0  0    0    2    0                          2        0        0      0    1            1           5
  05:00 PM      0       0     0     0        0     0    1  0    0                            1  0    0    1    0                          1        1        0      0    0            1           3
  05:15 PM      0       0     0     1        1     0    1  0    1                            2  0    0    0    2                          2        0        0      0    0            0           5
  05:30 PM      0       0     0     4        4     0    0  0    0                            0  0    0    0    3                          3        1        1      0    0            2           9
 Total Volume   0       0     0     7        7     0    2  0    1                            3  0    0    3    5                          8        2        1      0    1            4          22
 % App. Total   0       0     0 100                0 66.7  0 33.3                               0    0 37.5 62.5                                  50       25      0   25
        PHF .000 .000 .000 .438          .438 .000 .500 .000 .250                       .375 .000 .000 .375 .417                     .667       .500     .250   .000 .250      .500          .611
                                                                                                  PRECISION
                                                                                                  D A T A
N/S: Central Street                                                                               INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                                  File Name       : 91860 RR
                                                                                              P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E/W: Woodland Street                                                                     Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                             Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                                   Site Code       : 10865.00
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                                            Start Date      : 5/14/2009
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                                             Page No         :1



                               Central Street                                    Woodland Street                              Central Street                              Woodland Street
                                From North                                         From East                                   From South                                   From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru       Left App. Total                 Right    Thru     Left App. Total         Right      Thru      Left   App. Total      Right       Thru     Left App. Total       Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
    05:00 PM        18        4      1       23       0                            21         1           22          0         3        5            8           3           38              34    75        128
     05:15 PM       23        3      5       31       0                            17         0           17          0         1        3            4           8           29              26    63        115
     05:30 PM       21        3      4       28       0                            24         1           25          0         2        5            7           2           39              31    72        132
     05:45 PM       26        1      2        29      0                            26         3           29          0         1        1            2           8           31              35    74        134
 Total Volume       88       11     12      111       0                            88         5           93          0         7       14           21          21          137             126   284        509
  % App. Total    79.3      9.9   10.8                0                          94.6       5.4                       0      33.3     66.7                      7.4         48.2            44.4
           PHF    .846    .688    .600     .895    .000                          .846     .417          .802       .000      .583     .700         .656        .656         .878            .900   .947      .950
           Cars     88       11     10      109       0                            86         5           91          0         7       14           21          21          137             126    284       505
       % Cars      100     100    83.3     98.2       0                          97.7      100          97.8          0       100      100          100         100          100             100    100      99.2
 Heavy Vehicles      0        0      2         2      0                             2         0            2          0         0        0            0           0            0               0      0         4
 % Heavy Vehicles    0        0   16.7       1.8      0                           2.3         0          2.2          0         0        0            0           0            0               0      0       0.8

                                                                                                   Central Street
                                                                                              Out       In        Total
                                                                                               133       109       242
                                                                                                  0         2         2
                                                                                               133       111       244


                                                                                                     88   11        10
                                                                                                      0     0         2
                                                                                                     88   11        12
                                                                                                  Right Thru      Left




                                                                                         Peak Hour Data
                                                    472
                                                       2
                                                    474
                                                   Total




                                                                                                                                                                   Out
                                                            126
                                                               0
                                                            126




                                                                                                                                                                    149

                                                                                                                                                                    147
                                                                                                                                                 Right Thru
                                                           Left
                                   Woodland Street




                                                                                                                                                                      Woodland Street
                                                                                                                                                                       2




                                                                                                         North
                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                     0
                                           284
                                             0
                                           284




                                                                                        Peak Hour Begins at 05:00 PM
                                                                  137
                                                                     0
                                                                  137
                                                           Right Thru
                                          In




                                                                                                                                                                            In
                                                                                                                                                         88

                                                                                                                                                         86


                                                                                                                                                                              93

                                                                                                                                                                              91




                                                                                        Cars
                                                                                                                                                           2




                                                                                                                                                                               2




                                                                                        Heavy Vehicles
                                                              21
                                                               0
                                                              21




                                                                                                                                                 Left
                                  188
                                     2
                                  190
                                 Out




                                                                                                                                                                                    Total
                                                                                                                                                     5
                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                     5


                                                                                                                                                                                      242

                                                                                                                                                                                      238
                                                                                                                                                                                        4




                                                                                                  Left Thru Right
                                                                                                    14     7    0
                                                                                                      0    0    0
                                                                                                    14     7    0


                                                                                                37         21        58
                                                                                                  0         0         0
                                                                                                37         21        58
                                                                                              Out       In        Total
                                                                                                   Central Street
                                                                                    PRECISION
                                                                                    D A T A
N/S: Frontage Road                                                                  INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                     File Name         : 112468 A
                                                                                 P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E: Recreation Road                                                          Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                        Site Code         : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                 Start Date        : 3/15/2011
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                  Page No           :1


                                                                          Groups Printed- Cars - Heavy Vehicles
                                                  Frontage Road                            Recreation Road                           Frontage Road
                                                    From North                                From East                               From South
                           Start Time              Thru                    Left               Thru                        Left        Right                Thru               Int. Total
                          07:00 AM                     0                     0                      0                       0             20               387                    407
                          07:15 AM                     0                     0                      0                       0             13               426                    439
                          07:30 AM                     0                     0                      0                       0             16               401                    417
                          07:45 AM                     0                     0                      0                       0             15               407                    422
                              Total                    0                     0                      0                       0             64              1621                   1685

                          08:00 AM                     0                     0                      2                       0             14               446                    462
                          08:15 AM                     0                     0                      2                       0             24               487                    513
                          08:30 AM                     0                     0                      0                       0             19               488                    507
                          08:45 AM                     0                     0                      0                       0             12               472                    484
                              Total                    0                     0                      4                       0             69              1893                   1966

                     Grand Total                       0                     0                      4                       0         133                 3514                   3651
                       Apprch %                        0                     0                   100                        0          3.6                 96.4
                         Total %                       0                     0                    0.1                       0          3.6                 96.2
                           Cars                        0                     0                      4                       0         132                 3352                   3488
                         % Cars                        0                     0                   100                        0         99.2                 95.4                   95.5
                  Heavy Vehicles                       0                     0                      0                       0            1                 162                    163
                % Heavy Vehicles                       0                     0                      0                       0          0.8                  4.6                    4.5




                                          Frontage Road                                 Recreation Road                                   Frontage Road
                                            From North                                    From East                                        From South
                Start Time         Thru          Left        App. Total            Thru         Left                 App. Total   Right          Thru       App. Total        Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
            08:00 AM              0           0                      0                2                0                     2       14          446               460            462
             08:15 AM             0           0                      0                2                0                     2      24           487               511            513
             08:30 AM             0           0                      0                0                0                     0       19          488               507            507
             08:45 AM             0           0                      0                0                0                     0       12          472               484            484
        Total Volume              0           0                      0                4                0                     4       69        1893               1962           1966
         % App. Total             0           0                                     100                0                            3.5         96.5
                  PHF          .000        .000                   .000             .500             .000                 .500     .719          .970               .960           .958
                  Cars            0           0                      0                4                0                    4        69        1811               1880           1884
               % Cars             0           0                      0              100                0                  100      100          95.7               95.8           95.8
       Heavy Vehicles             0           0                      0                0                0                    0         0           82                 82             82
     % Heavy Vehicles             0           0                      0                0                0                    0         0           4.3               4.2            4.2
                                                                                   PRECISION
                                                                                   D A T A
N/S: Frontage Road                                                                 INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                      File Name        : 112468 A
                                                                                P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E: Recreation Road                                                         Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                               Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                        Site Code        : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                 Start Date       : 3/15/2011
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                  Page No          :1


                                                                                  Groups Printed- Cars
                                                  Frontage Road                           Recreation Road                           Frontage Road
                                                    From North                                From East                              From South
                           Start Time              Thru                   Left               Thru                        Left        Right                 Thru              Int. Total
                          07:00 AM                     0                    0                      0                       0              19               371                   390
                          07:15 AM                     0                    0                      0                       0              13               402                   415
                          07:30 AM                     0                    0                      0                       0              16               376                   392
                          07:45 AM                     0                    0                      0                       0              15               392                   407
                              Total                    0                    0                      0                       0              63              1541                  1604

                          08:00 AM                     0                    0                      2                       0              14               426                   442
                          08:15 AM                     0                    0                      2                       0              24               468                   494
                          08:30 AM                     0                    0                      0                       0              19               470                   489
                          08:45 AM                     0                    0                      0                       0              12               447                   459
                              Total                    0                    0                      4                       0              69              1811                  1884

                       Grand Total                     0                    0                      4                       0             132              3352                  3488
                         Apprch %                      0                    0                   100                        0              3.8              96.2
                          Total %                      0                    0                    0.1                       0              3.8              96.1




                                          Frontage Road                                Recreation Road                                    Frontage Road
                                            From North                                   From East                                         From South
                Start Time         Thru          Left        App. Total           Thru         Left                 App. Total   Right           Thru       App. Total       Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
            08:00 AM              0           0                      0               2                0                     2      14             426              440           442
             08:15 AM             0           0                      0               2                0                     2      24             468              492           494
             08:30 AM             0           0                      0               0                0                     0      19             470              489           489
             08:45 AM             0           0                      0               0                0                     0      12             447              459           459
        Total Volume              0           0                      0               4                0                     4      69           1811              1880          1884
         % App. Total             0           0                                    100                0                           3.7            96.3
                  PHF          .000        .000                   .000            .500             .000                 .500     .719            .963             .955           .953
                                                                                   PRECISION
                                                                                   D A T A
N/S: Frontage Road                                                                 INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                    File Name         : 112468 A
                                                                                P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E: Recreation Road                                                         Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                               Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                      Site Code         : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                               Start Date        : 3/15/2011
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                Page No           :1


                                                                            Groups Printed- Heavy Vehicles
                                                  Frontage Road                           Recreation Road                           Frontage Road
                                                    From North                               From East                               From South
                           Start Time              Thru                   Left               Thru                        Left        Right                Thru              Int. Total
                          07:00 AM                     0                    0                      0                       0              1                16                     17
                          07:15 AM                     0                    0                      0                       0              0                24                     24
                          07:30 AM                     0                    0                      0                       0              0                25                     25
                          07:45 AM                     0                    0                      0                       0              0                15                     15
                              Total                    0                    0                      0                       0              1                80                     81

                          08:00 AM                     0                    0                      0                       0              0                20                     20
                          08:15 AM                     0                    0                      0                       0              0                19                     19
                          08:30 AM                     0                    0                      0                       0              0                18                     18
                          08:45 AM                     0                    0                      0                       0              0                25                     25
                              Total                    0                    0                      0                       0              0                82                     82

                       Grand Total                     0                    0                      0                       0               1              162                    163
                         Apprch %                      0                    0                      0                       0             0.6              99.4
                          Total %                      0                    0                      0                       0             0.6              99.4




                                          Frontage Road                                Recreation Road                                    Frontage Road
                                            From North                                   From East                                         From South
                Start Time         Thru          Left        App. Total           Thru         Left                 App. Total   Right           Thru      App. Total       Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:15 AM
            07:15 AM              0           0                      0               0                0                     0       0            24               24              24
            07:30 AM              0           0                      0               0                0                     0       0            25               25              25
             07:45 AM             0           0                      0               0                0                     0       0            15               15              15
             08:00 AM             0           0                      0               0                0                     0       0            20               20              20
        Total Volume              0           0                      0               0                0                     0       0            84               84              84
        % App. Total              0           0                                      0                0                             0           100
                  PHF          .000        .000                   .000            .000             .000                 .000     .000          .840              .840           .840
                                                                                  PRECISION
                                                                                  D A T A
N/S: Frontage Road                                                                INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                            File Name             : 112468 A
                                                                               P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E: Recreation Road                                                        Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                              Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                             Site Code             : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                      Start Date            : 3/15/2011
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                       Page No               :1



                                          Frontage Road                               Recreation Road                                    Frontage Road
                                            From North                                  From East                                         From South
                Start Time         Thru          Left        App. Total          Thru         Left                 App. Total    Right          Thru                  App. Total       Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
            08:00 AM              0           0                      0              2                 0                    2        14          446                        460             462
             08:15 AM             0           0                      0              2                 0                    2       24           487                        511             513
             08:30 AM             0           0                      0              0                 0                    0        19          488                        507             507
             08:45 AM             0           0                      0              0                 0                    0        12          472                        484             484
        Total Volume              0           0                      0              4                 0                    4        69        1893                        1962            1966
         % App. Total             0           0                                   100                 0                            3.5         96.5
                  PHF          .000        .000                  .000            .500              .000                .500      .719          .970                        .960            .958
                  Cars            0           0                     0               4                 0                   4         69        1811                        1880            1884
               % Cars             0           0                     0             100                 0                 100       100          95.7                        95.8            95.8
       Heavy Vehicles             0           0                     0               0                 0                   0          0           82                          82              82
     % Heavy Vehicles             0           0                     0               0                 0                   0          0           4.3                        4.2             4.2

                                                                                   Frontage Road
                                                                               Out       In      Total
                                                                               1815         0    1815
                                                                                 82         0       82
                                                                               1897         0    1897


                                                                                            0       0
                                                                                            0       0
                                                                                            0       0
                                                                                        Thru    Left




                                                                          Peak Hour Data                                                     Out
                                                                                                                                               69

                                                                                                                                               69

                                                                                                                                                Recreation Road
                                                                                                                                                 0




                                                                                           North
                                                                                                                                Thru




                                                                            Peak Hour Begins at 08:00 AM
                                                                                                                                    4
                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                    4




                                                                                                                                                      In




                                                                            Cars
                                                                                                                                Left




                                                                                                                                                          4
                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                          4




                                                                            Heavy Vehicles
                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                    0




                                                                                                                                                              Total
                                                                                                                                                                 73

                                                                                                                                                                 73
                                                                                                                                                                  0




                                                                                        Thru Right
                                                                                        1811    69
                                                                                          82     0
                                                                                        1893    69


                                                                                    0   1880     1880
                                                                                    0      82       82
                                                                                    0   1962     1962
                                                                               Out       In      Total
                                                                                   Frontage Road
                                                                                    PRECISION
                                                                                    D A T A
N/S: Frontage Road                                                                  INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                       File Name         : 112468 AA
                                                                                 P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E: Recreation Road                                                          Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                          Site Code         : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                   Start Date        : 3/15/2011
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                    Page No           :1


                                                                          Groups Printed- Cars - Heavy Vehicles
                                                  Frontage Road                            Recreation Road                           Frontage Road
                                                    From North                                From East                               From South
                           Start Time              Thru                    Left               Thru                        Left        Right                  Thru               Int. Total
                          04:00 PM                     0                     0                      0                       0               9                517                    526
                          04:15 PM                     0                     0                      0                       0              12                541                    553
                          04:30 PM                     0                     0                      5                       0               7                479                    491
                          04:45 PM                     0                     0                      3                       0               3                535                    541
                              Total                    0                     0                      8                       0              31               2072                   2111

                          05:00 PM                     0                     0                      0                       0               5                574                    579
                          05:15 PM                     0                     0                      5                       0              11                554                    570
                          05:30 PM                     0                     0                      0                       0               9                536                    545
                          05:45 PM                     0                     0                      2                       0              10                477                    489
                              Total                    0                     0                      7                       0              35               2141                   2183

                     Grand Total                       0                     0                    15                        0              66               4213                   4294
                       Apprch %                        0                     0                   100                        0              1.5               98.5
                         Total %                       0                     0                    0.3                       0              1.5               98.1
                           Cars                        0                     0                    15                        0              66               4107                   4188
                         % Cars                        0                     0                   100                        0             100                97.5                   97.5
                  Heavy Vehicles                       0                     0                      0                       0                0               106                    106
                % Heavy Vehicles                       0                     0                      0                       0                0                2.5                    2.5




                                          Frontage Road                                 Recreation Road                                    Frontage Road
                                            From North                                    From East                                         From South
                Start Time         Thru          Left        App. Total            Thru         Left                 App. Total   Right           Thru        App. Total        Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:45 PM
            04:45 PM              0           0                      0                3                0                     3        3            535               538            541
            05:00 PM              0           0                      0                0                0                     0        5            574               579            579
             05:15 PM             0           0                      0                5                0                     5      11             554               565            570
             05:30 PM             0           0                      0                0                0                     0        9            536               545            545
        Total Volume              0           0                      0                8                0                     8       28          2199               2227           2235
         % App. Total             0           0                                     100                0                            1.3           98.7
                  PHF          .000        .000                   .000             .400             .000                 .400     .636            .958               .962           .965
                  Cars            0           0                      0                8                0                    8        28          2140               2168           2176
               % Cars             0           0                      0              100                0                  100      100            97.3               97.4           97.4
       Heavy Vehicles             0           0                      0                0                0                    0         0             59                 59             59
     % Heavy Vehicles             0           0                      0                0                0                    0         0             2.7               2.6            2.6
                                                                                   PRECISION
                                                                                   D A T A
N/S: Frontage Road                                                                 INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                     File Name         : 112468 AA
                                                                                P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E: Recreation Road                                                         Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                               Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                       Site Code         : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                Start Date        : 3/15/2011
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                 Page No           :1


                                                                                  Groups Printed- Cars
                                                  Frontage Road                           Recreation Road                           Frontage Road
                                                    From North                                From East                              From South
                           Start Time              Thru                   Left               Thru                        Left        Right                 Thru              Int. Total
                          04:00 PM                     0                    0                      0                       0              9                504                   513
                          04:15 PM                     0                    0                      0                       0             12                527                   539
                          04:30 PM                     0                    0                      5                       0              7                465                   477
                          04:45 PM                     0                    0                      3                       0              3                517                   523
                              Total                    0                    0                      8                       0             31               2013                  2052

                          05:00 PM                     0                    0                      0                       0              5                560                   565
                          05:15 PM                     0                    0                      5                       0             11                537                   553
                          05:30 PM                     0                    0                      0                       0              9                526                   535
                          05:45 PM                     0                    0                      2                       0             10                471                   483
                              Total                    0                    0                      7                       0             35               2094                  2136

                       Grand Total                     0                    0                    15                        0             66               4107                  4188
                         Apprch %                      0                    0                   100                        0             1.6               98.4
                          Total %                      0                    0                    0.4                       0             1.6               98.1




                                          Frontage Road                                Recreation Road                                    Frontage Road
                                            From North                                   From East                                         From South
                Start Time         Thru          Left        App. Total           Thru         Left                 App. Total   Right           Thru       App. Total       Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:45 PM
            04:45 PM              0           0                      0               3                0                     3       3            517               520           523
            05:00 PM              0           0                      0               0                0                     0       5            560               565           565
             05:15 PM             0           0                      0               5                0                     5      11            537               548           553
             05:30 PM             0           0                      0               0                0                     0       9            526               535           535
        Total Volume              0           0                      0               8                0                     8      28          2140               2168          2176
         % App. Total             0           0                                    100                0                           1.3           98.7
                  PHF          .000        .000                   .000            .400             .000                 .400     .636           .955              .959           .963
                                                                                   PRECISION
                                                                                   D A T A
N/S: Frontage Road                                                                 INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                   File Name         : 112468 AA
                                                                                P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E: Recreation Road                                                         Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                               Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                     Site Code         : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                              Start Date        : 3/15/2011
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                               Page No           :1


                                                                            Groups Printed- Heavy Vehicles
                                                  Frontage Road                           Recreation Road                           Frontage Road
                                                    From North                               From East                               From South
                           Start Time              Thru                   Left               Thru                        Left        Right               Thru              Int. Total
                          04:00 PM                     0                    0                      0                       0             0                13                     13
                          04:15 PM                     0                    0                      0                       0             0                14                     14
                          04:30 PM                     0                    0                      0                       0             0                14                     14
                          04:45 PM                     0                    0                      0                       0             0                18                     18
                              Total                    0                    0                      0                       0             0                59                     59

                          05:00 PM                     0                    0                      0                       0             0                14                     14
                          05:15 PM                     0                    0                      0                       0             0                17                     17
                          05:30 PM                     0                    0                      0                       0             0                10                     10
                          05:45 PM                     0                    0                      0                       0             0                 6                      6
                              Total                    0                    0                      0                       0             0                47                     47

                       Grand Total                     0                    0                      0                       0             0               106                    106
                         Apprch %                      0                    0                      0                       0             0               100
                          Total %                      0                    0                      0                       0             0               100




                                          Frontage Road                                Recreation Road                                   Frontage Road
                                            From North                                   From East                                        From South
                Start Time         Thru          Left        App. Total           Thru         Left                 App. Total   Right          Thru      App. Total       Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:30 PM
            04:30 PM              0           0                      0               0                0                     0       0           14               14              14
            04:45 PM              0           0                      0               0                0                     0       0           18               18              18
             05:00 PM             0           0                      0               0                0                     0       0           14               14              14
             05:15 PM             0           0                      0               0                0                     0       0           17               17              17
        Total Volume              0           0                      0               0                0                     0       0           63               63              63
        % App. Total              0           0                                      0                0                             0          100
                  PHF          .000        .000                   .000            .000             .000                 .000     .000         .875              .875           .875
                                                                                  PRECISION
                                                                                  D A T A
N/S: Frontage Road                                                                INDUSTRIES, LLC                                                           File Name              : 112468 AA
                                                                               P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
E: Recreation Road                                                        Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                              Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                            Site Code              : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                     Start Date             : 3/15/2011
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                                                                                      Page No                :1



                                          Frontage Road                               Recreation Road                                    Frontage Road
                                            From North                                  From East                                         From South
                Start Time         Thru          Left        App. Total          Thru         Left                 App. Total    Right          Thru                  App. Total       Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:45 PM
            04:45 PM              0           0                      0              3                 0                    3         3          535                        538             541
            05:00 PM              0           0                      0              0                 0                    0         5          574                        579             579
             05:15 PM             0           0                      0              5                 0                    5       11           554                        565             570
             05:30 PM             0           0                      0              0                 0                    0         9          536                        545             545
        Total Volume              0           0                      0              8                 0                    8        28        2199                        2227            2235
         % App. Total             0           0                                   100                 0                            1.3         98.7
                  PHF          .000        .000                  .000            .400              .000                .400      .636          .958                        .962            .965
                  Cars            0           0                     0               8                 0                   8         28        2140                        2168            2176
               % Cars             0           0                     0             100                 0                 100       100          97.3                        97.4            97.4
       Heavy Vehicles             0           0                     0               0                 0                   0          0           59                          59              59
     % Heavy Vehicles             0           0                     0               0                 0                   0          0           2.7                        2.6             2.6

                                                                                   Frontage Road
                                                                               Out       In      Total
                                                                               2148         0    2148
                                                                                 59         0       59
                                                                               2207         0    2207


                                                                                            0       0
                                                                                            0       0
                                                                                            0       0
                                                                                        Thru    Left




                                                                          Peak Hour Data                                                     Out
                                                                                                                                               28

                                                                                                                                               28

                                                                                                                                                Recreation Road
                                                                                                                                                 0




                                                                                           North
                                                                                                                                Thru




                                                                            Peak Hour Begins at 04:45 PM
                                                                                                                                    8
                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                    8




                                                                                                                                                      In




                                                                            Cars
                                                                                                                                Left




                                                                                                                                                          8
                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                          8




                                                                            Heavy Vehicles
                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                    0




                                                                                                                                                              Total
                                                                                                                                                                 36

                                                                                                                                                                 36
                                                                                                                                                                  0




                                                                                        Thru Right
                                                                                        2140    28
                                                                                          59     0
                                                                                        2199    28


                                                                                    0   2168     2168
                                                                                    0      59       59
                                                                                    0   2227     2227
                                                                               Out       In      Total
                                                                                   Frontage Road
                                                                  Transportation Data Corporation
                                                                    Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
                                                                     t (781) 587-0086 f (781) 587-0089
S: Auburn Street (Adjacent to I-95)                                                                                                                         File Name           : 04051A
E/W: Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                                                                                                                         Site Code           : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                     Start Date          : 11/17/2010
Client: VHB/M. Kealey                                                                                                                                       Page No             :1

                                                                                     Groups Printed- Cars - Trucks
                                       Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                   Auburn Street (Near I-95 Ramps)              Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)
                                                From East                                           From South                                From West
                    Start Time            Thru          Left          Uturn               Right               Left         Peds        Right          Thru              Peds         Int. Total
                    07:00 AM               180             2              0                    2               26              0          80           227                  0              517
                    07:15 AM               228             1              1                    0               45              0          83           196                  0              554
                    07:30 AM               293             0              1                    2               58              0          98           222                  0              674
                    07:45 AM               291             3              3                    2               67              0          77           193                  0              636
                          Total            992             6              5                    6              196              0        338            838                  0             2381

                     08:00 AM              278                3                 2              2             73                 0         77              184              0              619
                     08:15 AM              263                2                 2              1             79                 0         67              176              0              590
                     08:30 AM              235                1                 0              7            111                 0         60              181              0              595
                     08:45 AM              242                4                 5              4             79                 0         47              181              0              562
                          Total           1018               10                 9             14            342                 0        251              722              0             2366

                   Grand Total            2010               16               14              20             538                0        589             1560              0             4747
                    Apprch %               98.5             0.8              0.7             3.6            96.4                0       27.4              72.6             0
                       Total %             42.3             0.3              0.3             0.4            11.3                0       12.4              32.9             0
                          Cars            1990               15               14              19             535                0        585             1540              0             4698
                       % Cars                99            93.8             100               95            99.4                0       99.3              98.7             0               99
                        Trucks               20               1                0               1                3               0           4               20             0               49
                     % Trucks                 1             6.2                0               5              0.6               0         0.7              1.3             0                1




                                    Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                     Auburn Street (Near I-95 Ramps)                 Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)
                                                  From East                                       From South                                    From West
             Start Time          Thru           Left      Uturn   App. Total        Right        Left        Peds      App. Total    Right    Thru        Peds      App. Total       Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
             07:30 AM              293             0            1        294             2            58        0             60       98         222               0        320          674
              07:45 AM             291             3            3        297             2            67        0             69        77        193               0        270          636
              08:00 AM             278             3            2        283             2            73        0             75        77        184               0        261          619
              08:15 AM             263             2            2        267             1            79        0             80        67        176               0        243          590
          Total Volume           1125              8            8      1141              7          277         0            284      319         775               0       1094         2519
          % App. Total            98.6           0.7          0.7                      2.5         97.5         0                    29.2        70.8               0
                    PHF           .960         .667         .667        .960         .875          .877      .000            .888    .814        .873            .000        .855         .934
                    Cars         1112              7            8      1127              6          276         0             282     316         764               0       1080         2489
                % Cars            98.8         87.5          100        98.8         85.7          99.6         0            99.3    99.1        98.6               0        98.7         98.8
                 Trucks              13            1            0          14            1             1        0                2       3          11              0           14           30
              % Trucks              1.2        12.5             0         1.2        14.3            0.4        0              0.7     0.9         1.4              0          1.3          1.2
                                                                 Transportation Data Corporation
                                                                  Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
                                                                   t (781) 587-0086 f (781) 587-0089
S: Auburn Street (Adjacent to I-95)                                                                                                                    File Name            : 04051A
E/W: Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                                                                                                                    Site Code            : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                Start Date           : 11/17/2010
Client: VHB/M. Kealey                                                                                                                                  Page No              :1

                                                                                      Groups Printed- Trucks
                                      Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                  Auburn Street (Near I-95 Ramps)             Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)
                                               From East                                         From South                                From West
                    Start Time           Thru          Left          Uturn              Right              Left          Peds       Right          Thru            Peds           Int. Total
                    07:00 AM                2             0              0                  0                0               0          0             3                0                   5
                    07:15 AM                1             0              0                  0                1               0          0             1                0                   3
                    07:30 AM                3             0              0                  1                1               0          1             4                0                 10
                    07:45 AM                5             0              0                  0                0               0          2             2                0                   9
                          Total            11             0              0                  1                2               0          3            10                0                 27

                    08:00 AM                 3               0                0              0               0               0           0             4              0                   7
                    08:15 AM                 2               1                0              0               0               0           0             1              0                   4
                    08:30 AM                 2               0                0              0               1               0           0             2              0                   5
                    08:45 AM                 2               0                0              0               0               0           1             3              0                   6
                         Total               9               1                0              0               1               0           1            10              0                  22

                  Grand Total               20               1                0              1               3               0          4              20             0                  49
                   Apprch %               95.2             4.8                0             25              75               0       16.7            83.3             0
                      Total %             40.8               2                0              2             6.1               0        8.2            40.8             0




                                    Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                   Auburn Street (Near I-95 Ramps)                Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)
                                                  From East                                     From South                                   From West
             Start Time          Thru           Left      Uturn  App. Total       Right        Left        Peds      App. Total   Right    Thru        Peds      App. Total       Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
             07:30 AM                3             0           0          3           1             1         0               2      1           4             0             5           10
              07:45 AM               5             0           0          5           0             0         0               0      2           2             0             4            9
              08:00 AM               3             0           0          3           0             0         0               0      0           4             0             4            7
              08:15 AM               2             1           0          3           0             0         0               0      0           1             0             1            4
          Total Volume              13             1           0         14           1             1         0               2      3          11             0            14           30
          % App. Total            92.9           7.1           0                     50            50         0                   21.4        78.6             0
                    PHF           .650         .250         .000       .700        .250          .250      .000            .250   .375        .688          .000           .700        .750
                                                                                      Transportation Data Corporation
                                                                                      Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
                                                                                       t (781) 587-0086 f (781) 587-0089
S: Auburn Street (Adjacent to I-95)                                                                                                                                               File Name      : 04051A
E/W: Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                                                                                                                                               Site Code      : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                                           Start Date     : 11/17/2010
Client: VHB/M. Kealey                                                                                                                                                             Page No        :1



                                    Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                               Auburn Street (Near I-95 Ramps)                 Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)
                                                  From East                                                 From South                                    From West
             Start Time          Thru           Left      Uturn   App. Total                  Right        Left        Peds      App. Total    Right    Thru        Peds      App. Total                Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
             07:30 AM              293             0            1        294                       2          58          0             60        98         222                          0     320          674
              07:45 AM             291             3            3        297                       2          67          0             69         77        193                          0     270          636
              08:00 AM             278             3            2        283                       2          73          0             75         77        184                          0     261          619
              08:15 AM             263             2            2        267                       1          79          0             80         67        176                          0     243          590
          Total Volume           1125              8            8      1141                        7        277           0            284       319         775                          0    1094         2519
          % App. Total            98.6           0.7          0.7                                2.5       97.5           0                     29.2        70.8                          0
                    PHF           .960         .667         .667        .960                   .875        .877        .000            .888     .814        .873                       .000     .855         .934
                    Cars         1112              7            8      1127                        6        276           0             282      316         764                          0    1080         2489
                % Cars            98.8         87.5          100        98.8                   85.7        99.6           0            99.3     99.1        98.6                          0     98.7         98.8
                 Trucks              13            1            0          14                      1           1          0                2        3          11                         0        14           30
              % Trucks              1.2        12.5             0         1.2                  14.3          0.4          0              0.7      0.9         1.4                         0       1.3          1.2




                                                                                              Peak Hour Data


                                                                                                                                                              Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)
                                   Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)


                                                            28
                                                         2468

                                                         2496
                                                         Total




                                                                                                                                                                  Out
                                                                                                                                                                   782

                                                                                                                                                                   770
                                                                                 11
                                                                                764

                                                                                775




                                                                                                                                               Thru
                                                                    Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                               1125

                                                                                                                                               1112



                                                                                                                                                                    12
                                                                                                            North
                                                                                                                                                 13
                                                    14
                                                 1080

                                                 1094




                                                                                             Peak Hour Begins at 07:30 AM
                                                                             3
                                                                          316

                                                                          319
                                                  In




                                                                                                                                                                          1141

                                                                                                                                                                          1127
                                                                                                                                               Left Uturn




                                                                                                                                                                           In
                                                                                                                                                                             14
                                                                                                                                                   8
                                                                                                                                                   1
                                                                                                                                                   7




                                                                                             Cars
                                                                                             Trucks
                                                                       0
                                                                       0
                                                                       0
                                         14
                                       1388

                                       1402
                                       Out




                                                                                                                                                                                   Total
                                                                                                                                                                                   1923

                                                                                                                                                                                   1897
                                                                                                                                                        8
                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                        8



                                                                                                                                                                                      26




                                                                                                       Left Right Peds
                                                                                                        276     6    0
                                                                                                           1    1    0
                                                                                                        277     7    0


                                                                                                   323        282       605
                                                                                                      4         2         6
                                                                                                   327        284       611
                                                                                                  Out        In       Total
                                                                                               Auburn Street (Near I-95 Ramps)
                                                                 Transportation Data Corporation
                                                                   Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
                                                                    t (781) 587-0086 f (781) 587-0089
S: Auburn Street (Adjacent to I-95)                                                                                                                                File Name           : 04051AA
E/W: Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                                                                                                                                Site Code           : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                            Start Date          : 11/17/2010
Client: VHB/M. Kealey                                                                                                                                              Page No             :1

                                                                               Groups Printed- Cars - Trucks
                                             Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)         Auburn Street (Near I-95 Ramps)                 Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)
                                                      From East                                 From South                                   From West
                              Start Time              Thru                  Left               Right                Left                    Right                  Thru                     Int. Total
                              04:00 PM                 243                    5                     4                38                        44                   229                           563
                              04:15 PM                 216                    3                     4                61                        61                   223                           568
                              04:30 PM                 239                    8                     5                54                        59                   237                           602
                              04:45 PM                 254                    4                     4                39                        83                   261                           645
                                    Total              952                   20                   17                192                       247                   950                          2378

                               05:00 PM                   266                      7                    5                   83                     94                  248                       703
                               05:15 PM                   250                      7                    4                   64                    118                  279                       722
                               05:30 PM                   195                      5                    9                   48                    120                  269                       646
                               05:45 PM                   209                      5                    3                   53                    125                  282                       677
                                    Total                 920                     24                   21                  248                    457                 1078                      2748

                             Grand Total                 1872                      44                   38                 440                     704                2028                      5126
                              Apprch %                    97.7                    2.3                  7.9                92.1                    25.8                 74.2
                                 Total %                  36.5                    0.9                  0.7                  8.6                   13.7                 39.6
                                    Cars                 1862                      43                   38                 433                     698                2018                      5092
                                 % Cars                   99.5                   97.7                 100                 98.4                    99.1                 99.5                      99.3
                                  Trucks                    10                      1                    0                    7                       6                  10                        34
                               % Trucks                    0.5                    2.3                    0                  1.6                     0.9                 0.5                       0.7




                                       Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                   Auburn Street (Near I-95 Ramps)                Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)
                                                    From East                                      From South                                   From West
                   Start Time             Thru            Left     App. Total            Right            Left        App. Total        Right         Thru         App. Total               Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
                    05:00 PM                266              7            273                 5             83               88              94             248                342               703
                    05:15 PM                250              7            257                 4             64               68            118              279                397               722
                    05:30 PM                195              5            200                 9             48               57            120              269                389               646
                    05:45 PM                209              5            214                 3             53               56            125              282                407               677
                Total Volume                920             24            944                21           248               269            457            1078                1535              2748
                % App. Total               97.5            2.5                              7.8          92.2                             29.8             70.2
                          PHF              .865          .857            .864             .583           .747               .764          .914             .956                .943             .952
                          Cars              918             24            942                21           246                267           455            1074                1529              2738
                       % Cars              99.8           100            99.8              100           99.2               99.3          99.6             99.6                99.6             99.6
                        Trucks                 2             0               2                0              2                  2             2                4                   6               10
                     % Trucks                0.2             0             0.2                0            0.8                0.7           0.4              0.4                 0.4              0.4
                                                                Transportation Data Corporation
                                                                  Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
                                                                   t (781) 587-0086 f (781) 587-0089
S: Auburn Street (Adjacent to I-95)                                                                                                                         File Name         : 04051AA
E/W: Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                                                                                                                         Site Code         : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                     Start Date        : 11/17/2010
Client: VHB/M. Kealey                                                                                                                                       Page No           :1

                                                                                      Groups Printed- Trucks
                                             Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)             Auburn Street (Near I-95 Ramps)          Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)
                                                      From East                                    From South                             From West
                              Start Time              Thru                  Left                   Right                Left             Right                  Thru               Int. Total
                              04:00 PM                    2                   0                        0                  2                   1                    2                        7
                              04:15 PM                    3                   0                        0                  0                   1                    3                        7
                              04:30 PM                    1                   1                        0                  1                   1                    1                        5
                              04:45 PM                    2                   0                        0                  2                   1                    0                        5
                                    Total                 8                   1                        0                  5                   4                    6                      24

                              05:00 PM                      2                    0                    0                     1                   0                 1                        4
                              05:15 PM                      0                    0                    0                     0                   1                 0                        1
                              05:30 PM                      0                    0                    0                     1                   0                 1                        2
                              05:45 PM                      0                    0                    0                     0                   1                 2                        3
                                   Total                    2                    0                    0                     2                   2                 4                       10

                            Grand Total                    10                     1                   0                    7                     6               10                       34
                             Apprch %                    90.9                   9.1                   0                  100                  37.5             62.5
                                Total %                  29.4                   2.9                   0                 20.6                  17.6             29.4




                                       Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                 Auburn Street (Near I-95 Ramps)               Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)
                                                    From East                                    From South                                  From West
                   Start Time             Thru            Left     App. Total          Right            Left        App. Total       Right         Thru         App. Total         Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:00 PM
                    04:00 PM                  2             0               2              0              2                  2            1             2                3                 7
                    04:15 PM                  3             0               3              0              0                  0            1             3                4                 7
                    04:30 PM                  1             1               2              0              1                  1            1             1                2                 5
                    04:45 PM                  2             0               2              0              2                  2            1             0                1                 5
                Total Volume                  8             1               9              0              5                  5            4             6               10                24
                % App. Total               88.9          11.1                              0            100                              40            60
                          PHF              .667          .250            .750           .000           .625               .625        1.000          .500              .625             .857
                                                                                 Transportation Data Corporation
                                                                                 Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
                                                                                  t (781) 587-0086 f (781) 587-0089
S: Auburn Street (Adjacent to I-95)                                                                                                                                       File Name             : 04051AA
E/W: Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                                                                                                                                       Site Code             : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                                   Start Date            : 11/17/2010
Client: VHB/M. Kealey                                                                                                                                                     Page No               :1



                                       Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                        Auburn Street (Near I-95 Ramps)             Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)
                                                    From East                                           From South                                From West
                   Start Time             Thru            Left     App. Total                 Right            Left        App. Total     Right         Thru         App. Total                      Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
                    05:00 PM                266              7            273                        5              83            88          94               248                      342               703
                    05:15 PM                250              7            257                        4              64            68        118                279                      397               722
                    05:30 PM                195              5            200                        9              48            57        120                269                      389               646
                    05:45 PM                209              5            214                        3              53            56        125                282                      407               677
                Total Volume                920             24            944                       21            248            269        457              1078                      1535              2748
                % App. Total               97.5            2.5                                     7.8           92.2                      29.8               70.2
                          PHF              .865          .857            .864                    .583            .747            .764      .914               .956                      .943             .952
                          Cars              918             24            942                       21            246             267       455              1074                      1529              2738
                       % Cars              99.8           100            99.8                     100            99.2            99.3      99.6               99.6                      99.6             99.6
                        Trucks                 2             0               2                       0               2               2         2                  4                         6               10
                     % Trucks                0.2             0             0.2                       0             0.8             0.7       0.4                0.4                       0.4              0.4




                                                                                         Peak Hour Data


                                                                                                                                                      Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)
                                  Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)


                                                           10
                                                        2693

                                                        2703
                                                        Total




                                                                                                                                                          1099

                                                                                                                                                          1095
                                                                                                                                                          Out
                                                                                                                                                              4
                                                                                                         North
                                                                             4
                                                                    455 1074

                                                                    457 1078




                                                                                                                                         Thru
                                                                   Right Thru




                                                                                                                                          920

                                                                                                                                          918
                                                    6
                                                1529

                                                1535




                                                                                        Peak Hour Begins at 05:00 PM
                                                 In




                                                                                                                                             2




                                                                                                                                                                   In
                                                                                                                                                                    944

                                                                                                                                                                    942
                                                                       2




                                                                                                                                         Left




                                                                                                                                                                      2




                                                                                        Cars
                                                                                                                                           24

                                                                                                                                           24




                                                                                        Trucks
                                                                                                                                              0
                                          4
                                      1164

                                      1168
                                      Out




                                                                                                                                                                           Total
                                                                                                                                                                           2043

                                                                                                                                                                           2037
                                                                                                                                                                               6




                                                                                                     Left Right
                                                                                                      246    21
                                                                                                         2    0
                                                                                                      248    21


                                                                                              479        267       746
                                                                                                 2         2         4
                                                                                              481        269       750
                                                                                             Out        In       Total
                                                                                          Auburn Street (Near I-95 Ramps)
                                                                     Transportation Data Corporation
                                                                      Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
                                                                       t (781) 587-0086 f (781) 587-0089
N/S: Washington Street (Route 16)                                                                                                                                 File Name          : 04051B
W: Auburn Street                                                                                                                                                  Site Code          : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                           Start Date         : 11/18/2010
Client: VHB/M. Kealey                                                                                                                                             Page No            :1

                                                                                          Groups Printed- Cars - Trucks
                                                   Washington Street (Route 16)                  Washington Street (Route 16)                Auburn Street
                                                            From North                                     From South                         From West
                                Start Time                 Right                     Thru                  Thru                 Left         Right                    Left                Int. Total
                                07:00 AM                      57                      182                   337                   2              1                     95                       674
                                07:15 AM                      49                      212                   308                   1              2                     93                       665
                                07:30 AM                      50                      159                   284                   0              0                     72                       565
                                07:45 AM                      57                      232                   293                   0              0                     59                       641
                                      Total                 213                       785                  1222                   3              3                    319                      2545

                                08:00 AM                      73                      217                 324                      1               5                   63                      683
                                08:15 AM                      86                      265                 274                      0               2                  109                      736
                                08:30 AM                      93                      248                 269                      0               2                   77                      689
                                08:45 AM                      93                      282                 263                      4               2                   72                      716
                                     Total                   345                     1012                1130                      5              11                  321                     2824

                              Grand Total                     558                    1797                2352                      8               14                 640                     5369
                               Apprch %                      23.7                     76.3                99.7                   0.3              2.1                97.9
                                  Total %                    10.4                     33.5                43.8                   0.1              0.3                11.9
                                     Cars                     555                    1782                2323                      7               14                 638                     5319
                                  % Cars                     99.5                     99.2                98.8                  87.5             100                 99.7                      99.1
                                   Trucks                        3                      15                  29                     1                0                    2                       50
                                % Trucks                       0.5                     0.8                 1.2                  12.5                0                  0.3                      0.9




                                          Washington Street (Route 16)                        Washington Street (Route 16)                         Auburn Street
                                                   From North                                         From South                                    From West
                   Start Time            Right           Thru          App. Total             Thru           Left          App. Total   Right             Left        App. Total          Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
                    08:00 AM                 73           217                 290               324               1              325         5               63               68               683
                    08:15 AM                  86          265                 351               274               0              274         2             109               111               736
                    08:30 AM                  93          248                 341               269               0              269         2               77               79               689
                    08:45 AM                  93          282                 375               263               4              267         2               72               74               716
                Total Volume                345         1012                1357              1130                5             1135        11             321               332              2824
                % App. Total               25.4          74.6                                  99.6             0.4                        3.3            96.7
                          PHF              .927          .897                .905              .872           .313              .873     .550             .736               .748             .959
                          Cars              342         1003                1345              1115                4             1119        11             319                330             2794
                       % Cars              99.1          99.1                99.1              98.7           80.0              98.6      100             99.4               99.4             98.9
                        Trucks                 3             9                  12                15              1                16        0                2                  2               30
                     % Trucks                0.9           0.9                 0.9               1.3          20.0                1.4        0              0.6                0.6              1.1
                                                                   Transportation Data Corporation
                                                                     Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
                                                                      t (781) 587-0086 f (781) 587-0089
N/S: Washington Street (Route 16)                                                                                                                           File Name         : 04051B
W: Auburn Street                                                                                                                                            Site Code         : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                     Start Date        : 11/18/2010
Client: VHB/M. Kealey                                                                                                                                       Page No           :1

                                                                                           Groups Printed- Trucks
                                                  Washington Street (Route 16)                Washington Street (Route 16)                Auburn Street
                                                           From North                                   From South                         From West
                                Start Time                Right                     Thru                 Thru                 Left        Right                 Left               Int. Total
                                07:00 AM                      0                        1                    2                   0             0                   0                         3
                                07:15 AM                      0                        2                    3                   0             0                   0                         5
                                07:30 AM                      0                        2                    3                   0             0                   0                         5
                                07:45 AM                      0                        1                    6                   0             0                   0                         7
                                      Total                   0                        6                   14                   0             0                   0                       20

                                08:00 AM                       1                       2                   6                     0            0                   0                        9
                                08:15 AM                       0                       3                   4                     0            0                   1                        8
                                08:30 AM                       0                       2                   4                     0            0                   0                        6
                                08:45 AM                       2                       2                   1                     1            0                   1                        7
                                     Total                     3                       9                  15                     1            0                   2                       30

                              Grand Total                      3                      15                  29                     1            0                   2                       50
                               Apprch %                     16.7                    83.3                96.7                   3.3            0                 100
                                  Total %                      6                      30                  58                     2            0                   4




                                          Washington Street (Route 16)                      Washington Street (Route 16)                      Auburn Street
                                                   From North                                       From South                                 From West
                   Start Time            Right           Thru          App. Total           Thru           Left          App. Total   Right          Left       App. Total         Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
                    07:45 AM                  0              1                  1               6             0                  6        0             0                 0                7
                    08:00 AM                  1              2                  3               6             0                  6        0             0                 0                9
                    08:15 AM                  0              3                  3               4             0                  4        0             1                 1                8
                    08:30 AM                  0              2                  2               4             0                  4        0             0                 0                6
                Total Volume                  1              8                  9              20             0                 20        0             1                 1               30
                % App. Total               11.1          88.9                                 100             0                           0           100
                          PHF              .250          .667                .750            .833          .000               .833     .000          .250              .250             .833
                                                                     Transportation Data Corporation
                                                                      Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
                                                                       t (781) 587-0086 f (781) 587-0089
N/S: Washington Street (Route 16)                                                                                                                               File Name         : 04051B
W: Auburn Street                                                                                                                                                Site Code         : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                         Start Date        : 11/18/2010
Client: VHB/M. Kealey                                                                                                                                           Page No           :1



                                          Washington Street (Route 16)                        Washington Street (Route 16)                       Auburn Street
                                                   From North                                         From South                                  From West
                   Start Time            Right           Thru          App. Total             Thru           Left          App. Total   Right           Left        App. Total         Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
                    08:00 AM                 73           217                 290               324                1             325         5             63              68               683
                    08:15 AM                  86          265                 351               274                0             274         2           109              111               736
                    08:30 AM                  93          248                 341               269                0             269         2             77              79               689
                    08:45 AM                  93          282                 375               263                4             267         2             72              74               716
                Total Volume                345         1012                1357              1130                 5            1135        11           321              332              2824
                % App. Total               25.4          74.6                                  99.6              0.4                       3.3          96.7
                          PHF              .927          .897                .905              .872            .313             .873     .550           .736              .748             .959
                          Cars              342         1003                1345              1115                 4            1119        11           319               330             2794
                       % Cars              99.1          99.1                99.1              98.7            80.0             98.6      100           99.4              99.4             98.9
                        Trucks                 3             9                  12                15               1               16        0              2                 2               30
                     % Trucks                0.9           0.9                 0.9               1.3           20.0               1.4        0            0.6               0.6              1.1


                                                                                        Washington Street (Route 16)
                                                                                         Out       In       Total
                                                                                         1434      1345      2779
                                                                                           17        12        29
                                                                                         1451      1357      2808


                                                                                                    342 1003
                                                                                                      3     9
                                                                                                    345 1012
                                                                                                  Right Thru




                                                                                      Peak Hour Data
                                                         6
                                                      676

                                                      682
                                                     Total




                                                                                                       North
                                                                 2
                                       Auburn Street




                                                              319

                                                              321
                                                             Left
                                                2
                                              330

                                              332




                                                                                     Peak Hour Begins at 08:00 AM
                                             In




                                                                 0
                                                                11

                                                                11
                                                             Right




                                                                                     Cars
                                                                                     Trucks
                                        4
                                     346

                                     350
                                    Out




                                                                                                   Left Thru
                                                                                                       4 1115
                                                                                                       1   15
                                                                                                       5 1130


                                                                                         1014      1119      2133
                                                                                             9       16        25
                                                                                         1023      1135      2158
                                                                                         Out       In       Total
                                                                                        Washington Street (Route 16)
                                                                    Transportation Data Corporation
                                                                      Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
                                                                       t (781) 587-0086 f (781) 587-0089
N/S: Washington Street (Route 16)                                                                                                                                 File Name          : 04051BB
W: Auburn Street                                                                                                                                                  Site Code          : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                           Start Date         : 11/18/2010
Client: VHB/M. Kealey                                                                                                                                             Page No            :1

                                                                                          Groups Printed- Cars - Trucks
                                                   Washington Street (Route 16)                  Washington Street (Route 16)                Auburn Street
                                                            From North                                     From South                         From West
                                Start Time                 Right                     Thru                  Thru                 Left         Right                    Left                Int. Total
                                04:00 PM                      84                      236                   237                   4              2                     76                       639
                                04:15 PM                      86                      281                   301                   1              4                     70                       743
                                04:30 PM                      90                      243                   293                   1              4                     72                       703
                                04:45 PM                      87                      213                   276                   3              2                     84                       665
                                      Total                 347                       973                  1107                   9             12                    302                      2750

                                05:00 PM                      92                      259                 281                      0               4                   91                      727
                                05:15 PM                      98                      282                 331                      4               1                   74                      790
                                05:30 PM                     119                      248                 310                      2               1                   96                      776
                                05:45 PM                     107                      244                 322                      0               2                  104                      779
                                     Total                   416                     1033                1244                      6               8                  365                     3072

                              Grand Total                    763                     2006                2351                     15               20                 667                     5822
                               Apprch %                     27.6                      72.4                99.4                   0.6              2.9                97.1
                                  Total %                   13.1                      34.5                40.4                   0.3              0.3                11.5
                                     Cars                    759                     1989                2340                     15               20                 665                     5788
                                  % Cars                    99.5                      99.2                99.5                  100              100                 99.7                      99.4
                                   Trucks                       4                       17                  11                     0                0                    2                       34
                                % Trucks                      0.5                      0.8                 0.5                     0                0                  0.3                      0.6




                                          Washington Street (Route 16)                        Washington Street (Route 16)                         Auburn Street
                                                    From North                                        From South                                    From West
                   Start Time            Right           Thru          App. Total             Thru           Left          App. Total   Right             Left        App. Total          Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
                    05:00 PM                 92           259                 351               281               0              281         4               91               95               727
                    05:15 PM                  98          282                 380               331               4              335         1               74               75               790
                    05:30 PM                119           248                 367               310               2              312         1               96               97               776
                    05:45 PM                107           244                 351               322               0              322         2             104               106               779
                Total Volume                416          1033               1449              1244                6             1250         8             365               373              3072
                % App. Total               28.7          71.3                                  99.5             0.5                        2.1            97.9
                          PHF              .874          .916                .953              .940           .375              .933     .500             .877               .880             .972
                          Cars              415          1027               1442              1239                6             1245         8             364                372             3059
                       % Cars              99.8          99.4                99.5              99.6            100              99.6      100             99.7               99.7             99.6
                        Trucks                 1             6                   7                 5              0                 5        0                1                  1               13
                     % Trucks                0.2           0.6                 0.5               0.4              0               0.4        0              0.3                0.3              0.4
                                                                   Transportation Data Corporation
                                                                     Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
                                                                      t (781) 587-0086 f (781) 587-0089
N/S: Washington Street (Route 16)                                                                                                                           File Name         : 04051BB
W: Auburn Street                                                                                                                                            Site Code         : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                     Start Date        : 11/18/2010
Client: VHB/M. Kealey                                                                                                                                       Page No           :1

                                                                                           Groups Printed- Trucks
                                                  Washington Street (Route 16)                Washington Street (Route 16)                Auburn Street
                                                           From North                                   From South                         From West
                                Start Time                Right                     Thru                 Thru                 Left        Right                 Left               Int. Total
                                04:00 PM                      1                        3                    2                   0             0                   0                         6
                                04:15 PM                      0                        2                    1                   0             0                   0                         3
                                04:30 PM                      1                        3                    3                   0             0                   1                         8
                                04:45 PM                      1                        3                    0                   0             0                   0                         4
                                      Total                   3                       11                    6                   0             0                   1                       21

                                05:00 PM                       0                      1                    3                     0            0                   0                        4
                                05:15 PM                       0                      3                    1                     0            0                   0                        4
                                05:30 PM                       1                      1                    1                     0            0                   0                        3
                                05:45 PM                       0                      1                    0                     0            0                   1                        2
                                     Total                     1                      6                    5                     0            0                   1                       13

                              Grand Total                      4                     17                   11                     0            0                    2                      34
                               Apprch %                       19                     81                  100                     0            0                 100
                                  Total %                   11.8                     50                 32.4                     0            0                  5.9




                                          Washington Street (Route 16)                      Washington Street (Route 16)                      Auburn Street
                                                    From North                                      From South                                 From West
                   Start Time            Right           Thru          App. Total           Thru           Left          App. Total   Right          Left       App. Total         Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:00 PM
                    04:00 PM                  1              3                  4               2             0                   2       0             0                 0                6
                    04:15 PM                  0              2                  2               1             0                   1       0             0                 0                3
                    04:30 PM                  1              3                  4               3             0                   3       0             1                 1                8
                    04:45 PM                  1              3                  4               0             0                   0       0             0                 0                4
                Total Volume                  3            11                  14               6             0                   6       0             1                 1               21
                % App. Total               21.4          78.6                                 100             0                           0           100
                          PHF              .750          .917                .875            .500          .000               .500     .000          .250              .250             .656
                                                                     Transportation Data Corporation
                                                                      Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
                                                                       t (781) 587-0086 f (781) 587-0089
N/S: Washington Street (Route 16)                                                                                                                               File Name         : 04051BB
W: Auburn Street                                                                                                                                                Site Code         : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                         Start Date        : 11/18/2010
Client: VHB/M. Kealey                                                                                                                                           Page No           :1



                                          Washington Street (Route 16)                        Washington Street (Route 16)                       Auburn Street
                                                    From North                                        From South                                  From West
                   Start Time            Right           Thru          App. Total             Thru           Left          App. Total   Right           Left        App. Total         Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
                    05:00 PM                 92           259                 351               281                0             281         4             91              95               727
                    05:15 PM                  98          282                 380               331                4             335         1             74              75               790
                    05:30 PM                119           248                 367               310                2             312         1             96              97               776
                    05:45 PM                107           244                 351               322                0             322         2           104              106               779
                Total Volume                416          1033               1449              1244                 6            1250         8           365              373              3072
                % App. Total               28.7          71.3                                  99.5              0.5                       2.1          97.9
                          PHF              .874          .916                .953              .940            .375             .933     .500           .877              .880             .972
                          Cars              415          1027               1442              1239                 6            1245         8           364               372             3059
                       % Cars              99.8          99.4                99.5              99.6             100             99.6      100           99.7              99.7             99.6
                        Trucks                 1             6                   7                 5               0                5        0              1                 1               13
                     % Trucks                0.2           0.6                 0.5               0.4               0              0.4        0            0.3               0.3              0.4


                                                                                        Washington Street (Route 16)
                                                                                         Out       In       Total
                                                                                         1603      1442      3045
                                                                                             6        7        13
                                                                                         1609      1449      3058


                                                                                                    415 1027
                                                                                                      1     6
                                                                                                    416 1033
                                                                                                  Right Thru




                                                                                      Peak Hour Data
                                                         2
                                                      793

                                                      795
                                                     Total




                                                                                                       North
                                                                 1
                                       Auburn Street




                                                              364

                                                              365
                                                             Left
                                                1
                                              372

                                              373




                                                                                     Peak Hour Begins at 05:00 PM
                                             In




                                                                 8
                                                                 0
                                                                 8
                                                             Right




                                                                                     Cars
                                                                                     Trucks
                                        1
                                     421

                                     422
                                    Out




                                                                                                   Left Thru
                                                                                                       6 1239
                                                                                                       0    5
                                                                                                       6 1244


                                                                                         1035      1245      2280
                                                                                             6        5        11
                                                                                         1041      1250      2291
                                                                                         Out       In       Total
                                                                                        Washington Street (Route 16)
                                                                    Transportation Data Corporation
                                                                      Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
                                                                       t (781) 587-0086 f (781) 587-0089
N/S: Washington Street (Route 16)                                                                                                                               File Name          : 04051C
W: Woodland Street                                                                                                                                              Site Code          : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                         Start Date         : 11/18/2010
Client: VHB/M. Kealey                                                                                                                                           Page No            :1

                                                                                          Groups Printed- Cars - Trucks
                                                   Washington Street (Route 16)                  Washington Street (Route 16)              Woodland Street
                                                            From North                                     From South                        From West
                                Start Time                 Right                     Thru                  Thru                 Left        Right                   Left                Int. Total
                                07:00 AM                       3                      190                   367                   4            15                     2                       581
                                07:15 AM                       9                      248                   329                  11            10                     1                       608
                                07:30 AM                      16                      187                   323                   9            19                     7                       561
                                07:45 AM                      11                      281                   324                  13            17                     0                       646
                                      Total                   39                      906                  1343                  37            61                    10                      2396

                                08:00 AM                        9                     264                 323                     9               15                  5                      625
                                08:15 AM                       19                     309                 288                    13               25                  4                      658
                                08:30 AM                       18                     287                 288                    12               13                  3                      621
                                08:45 AM                       17                     293                 308                    22               15                  7                      662
                                     Total                     63                    1153                1207                    56               68                 19                     2566

                              Grand Total                    102                     2059                2550                     93             129                 29                     4962
                               Apprch %                       4.7                     95.3                96.5                   3.5            81.6               18.4
                                  Total %                     2.1                     41.5                51.4                   1.9              2.6               0.6
                                     Cars                    100                     2037                2518                     90             126                 28                     4899
                                  % Cars                       98                     98.9                98.7                  96.8            97.7               96.6                      98.7
                                   Trucks                       2                       22                  32                     3                3                 1                        63
                                % Trucks                        2                      1.1                 1.3                   3.2              2.3               3.4                       1.3




                                          Washington Street (Route 16)                        Washington Street (Route 16)                    Woodland Street
                                                   From North                                         From South                                From West
                   Start Time            Right           Thru          App. Total             Thru           Left          App. Total   Right         Left          App. Total          Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
                    08:00 AM                   9          264                 273               323               9              332       15               5                20              625
                    08:15 AM                  19          309                 328               288              13              301       25               4                29              658
                    08:30 AM                  18          287                 305               288              12              300       13               3                16              621
                    08:45 AM                  17          293                 310               308              22              330       15               7                22              662
                Total Volume                  63        1153                1216              1207               56             1263       68              19                87             2566
                % App. Total                 5.2         94.8                                  95.6             4.4                     78.2            21.8
                          PHF              .829          .933                .927              .934           .636              .951    .680            .679               .750             .969
                          Cars                62        1139                1201              1188               55             1243       66              18                 84            2528
                       % Cars              98.4          98.8                98.8              98.4           98.2              98.4    97.1            94.7               96.6             98.5
                        Trucks                 1            14                  15                19              1                20       2               1                  3               38
                     % Trucks                1.6           1.2                 1.2               1.6            1.8               1.6     2.9             5.3                3.4              1.5
                                                                   Transportation Data Corporation
                                                                     Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
                                                                      t (781) 587-0086 f (781) 587-0089
N/S: Washington Street (Route 16)                                                                                                                           File Name         : 04051C
W: Woodland Street                                                                                                                                          Site Code         : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                     Start Date        : 11/18/2010
Client: VHB/M. Kealey                                                                                                                                       Page No           :1

                                                                                           Groups Printed- Trucks
                                                  Washington Street (Route 16)                Washington Street (Route 16)               Woodland Street
                                                           From North                                   From South                         From West
                                Start Time                Right                     Thru                 Thru                 Left        Right                 Left               Int. Total
                                07:00 AM                      0                        1                    4                   1             0                   0                         6
                                07:15 AM                      0                        2                    3                   0             0                   0                         5
                                07:30 AM                      0                        3                    3                   1             0                   0                         7
                                07:45 AM                      1                        2                    3                   0             1                   0                         7
                                      Total                   1                        8                   13                   2             1                   0                       25

                                08:00 AM                       0                      3                    7                     0            0                   0                       10
                                08:15 AM                       0                      4                    6                     0            1                   0                       11
                                08:30 AM                       0                      4                    4                     0            0                   1                        9
                                08:45 AM                       1                      3                    2                     1            1                   0                        8
                                     Total                     1                     14                   19                     1            2                   1                       38

                              Grand Total                      2                      22                  32                     3             3                  1                       63
                               Apprch %                      8.3                    91.7                91.4                   8.6            75                 25
                                  Total %                    3.2                    34.9                50.8                   4.8           4.8                1.6




                                          Washington Street (Route 16)                      Washington Street (Route 16)                    Woodland Street
                                                   From North                                       From South                                From West
                   Start Time            Right           Thru          App. Total           Thru           Left          App. Total   Right         Left        App. Total         Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
                    08:00 AM                   0             3                  3               7             0                  7       0              0                 0               10
                    08:15 AM                   0             4                  4               6             0                  6       1              0                 1               11
                    08:30 AM                   0             4                  4               4             0                  4       0              1                 1                9
                    08:45 AM                   1             3                  4               2             1                  3       1              0                 1                8
                Total Volume                   1           14                  15              19             1                 20       2              1                 3               38
                % App. Total                 6.7         93.3                                  95             5                       66.7           33.3
                          PHF              .250          .875                .938            .679          .250               .714    .500           .250              .750             .864
                                                                      Transportation Data Corporation
                                                                      Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
                                                                       t (781) 587-0086 f (781) 587-0089
N/S: Washington Street (Route 16)                                                                                                                             File Name         : 04051C
W: Woodland Street                                                                                                                                            Site Code         : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                       Start Date        : 11/18/2010
Client: VHB/M. Kealey                                                                                                                                         Page No           :1



                                          Washington Street (Route 16)                        Washington Street (Route 16)                    Woodland Street
                                                   From North                                         From South                                From West
                   Start Time            Right           Thru          App. Total             Thru           Left          App. Total   Right         Left        App. Total         Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
                    08:00 AM                   9          264                 273               323                9             332       15             5               20              625
                    08:15 AM                  19          309                 328               288               13             301       25             4               29              658
                    08:30 AM                  18          287                 305               288               12             300       13             3               16              621
                    08:45 AM                  17          293                 310               308               22             330       15             7               22              662
                Total Volume                  63        1153                1216              1207                56            1263       68            19               87             2566
                % App. Total                 5.2         94.8                                  95.6              4.4                    78.2          21.8
                          PHF              .829          .933                .927              .934            .636             .951    .680          .679              .750             .969
                          Cars                62        1139                1201              1188                55            1243       66            18                84            2528
                       % Cars              98.4          98.8                98.8              98.4            98.2             98.4    97.1          94.7              96.6             98.5
                        Trucks                 1            14                  15                19               1               20       2             1                 3               38
                     % Trucks                1.6           1.2                 1.2               1.6             1.8              1.6     2.9           5.3               3.4              1.5


                                                                                        Washington Street (Route 16)
                                                                                         Out       In       Total
                                                                                         1206      1201      2407
                                                                                           20        15        35
                                                                                         1226      1216      2442


                                                                                                     62 1139
                                                                                                      1    14
                                                                                                     63 1153
                                                                                                  Right Thru




                                                                                      Peak Hour Data
                                                          5
                                                       201

                                                       206
                                                      Total
                                      Woodland Street




                                                                                                       North
                                                                  1
                                                                18

                                                                19
                                                              Left
                                                3
                                               84

                                               87




                                                                                     Peak Hour Begins at 08:00 AM
                                             In




                                                                  2
                                                                 66

                                                                 68
                                                              Right




                                                                                     Cars
                                                                                     Trucks
                                        2
                                     117

                                     119
                                    Out




                                                                                                   Left Thru
                                                                                                     55 1188
                                                                                                       1   19
                                                                                                     56 1207


                                                                                         1205      1243      2448
                                                                                           16        20        36
                                                                                         1221      1263      2484
                                                                                         Out       In       Total
                                                                                        Washington Street (Route 16)
                                                                    Transportation Data Corporation
                                                                      Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
                                                                       t (781) 587-0086 f (781) 587-0089
N/S: Washington Street (Route 16)                                                                                                                              File Name         : 04051CC
W: Woodland Street                                                                                                                                             Site Code         : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                        Start Date        : 11/18/2010
Client: VHB/M. Kealey                                                                                                                                          Page No           :1

                                                                                          Groups Printed- Cars - Trucks
                                                   Washington Street (Route 16)                  Washington Street (Route 16)               Woodland Street
                                                            From North                                     From South                         From West
                                Start Time                 Right                     Thru                  Thru                  Left        Right                 Left               Int. Total
                                04:00 PM                      11                      271                   269                   23            17                  10                      601
                                04:15 PM                      10                      300                   300                   29            14                  13                      666
                                04:30 PM                       8                      280                   310                   26            19                  12                      655
                                04:45 PM                      14                      222                   306                   18            19                  10                      589
                                      Total                   43                     1073                  1185                   96            69                  45                     2511

                                05:00 PM                        9                     270                  323                    19              19                 8                     648
                                05:15 PM                       12                     274                  354                    22              20                 5                     687
                                05:30 PM                       15                     267                  308                    12              13                17                     632
                                05:45 PM                        7                     268                  353                    12              22                 7                     669
                                     Total                     43                    1079                 1338                    65              74                37                    2636

                              Grand Total                     86                     2152                 2523                   161             143                 82                   5147
                               Apprch %                      3.8                      96.2                   94                     6           63.6              36.4
                                  Total %                    1.7                      41.8                   49                   3.1             2.8               1.6
                                     Cars                     85                     2133                 2512                   160             143                 82                   5115
                                  % Cars                    98.8                      99.1                 99.6                 99.4             100               100                     99.4
                                   Trucks                      1                        19                   11                     1               0                 0                      32
                                % Trucks                     1.2                       0.9                  0.4                   0.6               0                 0                     0.6




                                          Washington Street (Route 16)                         Washington Street (Route 16)                    Woodland Street
                                                    From North                                         From South                                From West
                   Start Time            Right           Thru          App. Total              Thru           Left          App. Total   Right         Left        App. Total         Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
                    05:00 PM                   9          270                 279               323             19                342      19              8               27              648
                    05:15 PM                 12           274                 286               354              22               376      20              5               25              687
                    05:30 PM                  15          267                 282               308              12               320      13             17               30              632
                    05:45 PM                   7          268                 275               353              12               365      22              7               29              669
                Total Volume                  43         1079               1122              1338               65              1403      74             37              111             2636
                % App. Total                 3.8         96.2                                  95.4             4.6                      66.7           33.3
                          PHF              .717          .984                .981              .945           .739               .933    .841           .544              .925            .959
                          Cars                42         1072               1114              1332               65              1397      74             37               111            2622
                       % Cars              97.7          99.4                99.3              99.6            100               99.6     100            100               100            99.5
                        Trucks                 1             7                   8                 6              0                  6      0              0                 0               14
                     % Trucks                2.3           0.6                 0.7               0.4              0                0.4      0              0                 0              0.5
                                                                   Transportation Data Corporation
                                                                     Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
                                                                      t (781) 587-0086 f (781) 587-0089
N/S: Washington Street (Route 16)                                                                                                                           File Name         : 04051CC
W: Woodland Street                                                                                                                                          Site Code         : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                     Start Date        : 11/18/2010
Client: VHB/M. Kealey                                                                                                                                       Page No           :1

                                                                                           Groups Printed- Trucks
                                                  Washington Street (Route 16)                Washington Street (Route 16)               Woodland Street
                                                           From North                                   From South                         From West
                                Start Time                Right                     Thru                 Thru                 Left        Right                 Left               Int. Total
                                04:00 PM                      0                        2                    3                   0             0                   0                         5
                                04:15 PM                      0                        3                    1                   0             0                   0                         4
                                04:30 PM                      0                        4                    1                   1             0                   0                         6
                                04:45 PM                      0                        3                    0                   0             0                   0                         3
                                      Total                   0                       12                    5                   1             0                   0                       18

                                05:00 PM                       0                       1                   3                     0            0                   0                        4
                                05:15 PM                       0                       4                   1                     0            0                   0                        5
                                05:30 PM                       1                       1                   1                     0            0                   0                        3
                                05:45 PM                       0                       1                   1                     0            0                   0                        2
                                     Total                     1                       7                   6                     0            0                   0                       14

                              Grand Total                      1                      19                  11                     1            0                   0                       32
                               Apprch %                        5                      95                91.7                   8.3            0                   0
                                  Total %                    3.1                    59.4                34.4                   3.1            0                   0




                                          Washington Street (Route 16)                      Washington Street (Route 16)                    Woodland Street
                                                    From North                                      From South                                From West
                   Start Time            Right           Thru          App. Total           Thru           Left          App. Total   Right         Left        App. Total         Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:00 PM
                    04:00 PM                  0              2                  2               3             0                   3      0              0                 0                5
                    04:15 PM                  0              3                  3               1             0                   1      0              0                 0                4
                    04:30 PM                  0              4                  4               1             1                   2      0              0                 0                6
                    04:45 PM                  0              3                  3               0             0                   0      0              0                 0                3
                Total Volume                  0            12                  12               5             1                   6      0              0                 0               18
                % App. Total                  0           100                                83.3          16.7                          0              0
                          PHF              .000          .750                .750            .417          .250               .500    .000           .000              .000             .750
                                                                      Transportation Data Corporation
                                                                      Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
                                                                       t (781) 587-0086 f (781) 587-0089
N/S: Washington Street (Route 16)                                                                                                                            File Name        : 04051CC
W: Woodland Street                                                                                                                                           Site Code        : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                      Start Date       : 11/18/2010
Client: VHB/M. Kealey                                                                                                                                        Page No          :1



                                          Washington Street (Route 16)                        Washington Street (Route 16)                    Woodland Street
                                                    From North                                        From South                                From West
                   Start Time            Right           Thru          App. Total             Thru           Left          App. Total   Right         Left       App. Total        Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
                    05:00 PM                   9          270                 279               323              19              342      19             8              27              648
                    05:15 PM                 12           274                 286               354               22             376      20             5              25              687
                    05:30 PM                  15          267                 282               308               12             320      13            17              30              632
                    05:45 PM                   7          268                 275               353               12             365      22             7              29              669
                Total Volume                  43         1079               1122              1338                65            1403      74            37             111             2636
                % App. Total                 3.8         96.2                                  95.4              4.6                    66.7          33.3
                          PHF              .717          .984                .981              .945            .739             .933    .841          .544             .925            .959
                          Cars                42         1072               1114              1332                65            1397      74            37              111            2622
                       % Cars              97.7          99.4                99.3              99.6             100             99.6     100           100              100            99.5
                        Trucks                 1             7                   8                 6               0                6      0             0                0               14
                     % Trucks                2.3           0.6                 0.7               0.4               0              0.4      0             0                0              0.5


                                                                                        Washington Street (Route 16)
                                                                                         Out       In       Total
                                                                                         1369      1114      2483
                                                                                             6        8        14
                                                                                         1375      1122      2497


                                                                                                     42 1072
                                                                                                      1     7
                                                                                                     43 1079
                                                                                                  Right Thru




                                                                                      Peak Hour Data
                                                          1
                                                       218

                                                       219
                                                      Total
                                      Woodland Street




                                                                                                       North
                                                                  0
                                                                37

                                                                37
                                                              Left
                                                0
                                             111

                                             111




                                                                                     Peak Hour Begins at 05:00 PM
                                             In




                                                                  0
                                                                 74

                                                                 74
                                                              Right




                                                                                     Cars
                                                                                     Trucks
                                        1
                                     107

                                     108
                                    Out




                                                                                                   Left Thru
                                                                                                     65 1332
                                                                                                       0    6
                                                                                                     65 1338


                                                                                         1146      1397      2543
                                                                                             7        6        13
                                                                                         1153      1403      2556
                                                                                         Out       In       Total
                                                                                        Washington Street (Route 16)
                                                                        Transportation Data Corporation
                                                                          Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
                                                                           t (781) 587-0086 f (781) 587-0089
N/S: Lexington Street                                                                                                                                                       File Name                : 04051D
E/W: Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                                                                                                                                         Site Code                : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                                     Start Date               : 11/17/2010
Client: VHB/M. Kealey                                                                                                                                                       Page No                  :1

                                                                                        Groups Printed- Cars - Trucks
                                       Lexington Street                  Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                 Lexington Street                       Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)
                                         From North                               From East                               From South                                    From West
               Start Time         Right        Thru            Left         Right       Thru          Left         Right        Thru                   Left       Right       Thru          Left                 Int. Total
               07:00 AM               5           58            24             20         58            11            27           47                    7            9        113            97                       476
               07:15 AM               1           56            26             19         70            17            33           60                    0            7        109            85                       483
               07:30 AM               0           77            33             23         74            19            50           44                    3            2        111            94                       530
               07:45 AM               5           74            31             38         95            26            39           61                    4           10        113            80                       576
                     Total           11         265            114           100         297            73          149          212                    14           28        446          356                       2065

               08:00 AM               1            87           39                20         94          25              40              60              4             7           107              87                571
               08:15 AM               2            74           32                20        111          28              34              54              3             6            90              77                531
               08:30 AM               4            74           39                21        101          27              33              53              1            11            74              74                512
               08:45 AM               5            57           29                20         81          24              22              50              0            10            89              69                456
                    Total            12           292          139                81        387         104             129             217              8            34           360             307               2070

             Grand Total              23          557           253              181        684          177             278             429            22            62            806             663              4135
              Apprch %               2.8         66.9          30.4             17.4       65.6            17           38.1            58.8             3             4           52.6            43.3
                 Total %             0.6         13.5            6.1              4.4      16.5           4.3             6.7           10.4           0.5           1.5           19.5               16
                    Cars              23          554           247              176        678          176             277             422            22            61            793             658              4087
                 % Cars             100          99.5          97.6             97.2       99.1         99.4            99.6            98.4          100           98.4           98.4            99.2               98.8
                  Trucks               0             3             6                5          6            1               1               7            0             1              13               5                48
               % Trucks                0           0.5           2.4              2.8        0.9          0.6             0.4             1.6            0           1.6             1.6             0.8               1.2




                                   Lexington Street                    Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                       Lexington Street                     Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)
                                     From North                                 From East                                     From South                                  From West
       Start Time        Right      Thru         Left App. Total       Right   Thru      Left App. Total        Right        Thru       Left      App. Total     Right   Thru      Left App. Total               Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
        07:30 AM              0        77          33       110            23         74      19       116         50              44         3          97           2     111               94           207        530
        07:45 AM              5        74          31       110            38         95      26       159         39              61         4         104          10     113               80           203        576
        08:00 AM              1        87         39        127            20         94      25       139         40              60         4         104           7     107               87           201        571
        08:15 AM              2        74          32       108            20       111       28       159         34              54         3          91           6       90              77           173        531
     Total Volume             8      312         135        455          101        374       98       573       163             219         14         396          25     421             338            784       2208
     % App. Total           1.8     68.6        29.7                    17.6       65.3    17.1                 41.2            55.3        3.5                     3.2    53.7            43.1
              PHF         .400      .897        .865       .896         .664       .842    .875       .901      .815            .898      .875         .952       .625     .931            .899        .947           .958
              Cars            8      310         130        448            98       371       97       566       162             215         14         391          25     415             334         774          2179
           % Cars          100      99.4        96.3       98.5         97.0       99.2    99.0       98.8      99.4            98.2       100         98.7        100     98.6            98.8        98.7           98.7
            Trucks            0         2           5          7            3          3       1          7         1               4         0            5          0        6               4          10             29
         % Trucks             0       0.6         3.7        1.5          3.0        0.8     1.0        1.2       0.6             1.8         0          1.3          0      1.4             1.2         1.3            1.3
                                                                          Transportation Data Corporation
                                                                            Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
                                                                             t (781) 587-0086 f (781) 587-0089
N/S: Lexington Street                                                                                                                                                         File Name            : 04051D
E/W: Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                                                                                                                                           Site Code            : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                                       Start Date           : 11/17/2010
Client: VHB/M. Kealey                                                                                                                                                         Page No              :1

                                                                                             Groups Printed- Trucks
                                       Lexington Street                    Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                Lexington Street                      Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)
                                         From North                                 From East                              From South                                   From West
               Start Time         Right        Thru                Left       Right       Thru          Left        Right        Thru                  Left       Right       Thru          Left              Int. Total
               07:00 AM               0            0                 0            0          0             0            0            0                   0            1          2            1                        4
               07:15 AM               0            0                 0            0          2             0            0            1                   0            0          1            0                        4
               07:30 AM               0            2                 1            2          1             0            0            1                   0            0          2            0                        9
               07:45 AM               0            0                 1            1          1             0            1            2                   0            0          2            3                      11
                     Total            0            2                 2            3          4             0            1            4                   0            1          7            4                      28

               08:00 AM                0            0                0             0            1              1             0             1             0               0             1            1                 5
               08:15 AM                0            0                3             0            0              0             0             0             0               0             1            0                 4
               08:30 AM                0            1                1             2            1              0             0             1             0               0             1            0                 7
               08:45 AM                0            0                0             0            0              0             0             1             0               0             3            0                 4
                    Total              0            1                4             2            2              1             0             3             0               0             6            1                20

             Grand Total               0            3             6                 5           6           1                 1             7            0             1              13             5               48
              Apprch %                 0         33.3          66.7              41.7          50         8.3              12.5          87.5            0           5.3            68.4          26.3
                 Total %               0          6.2          12.5              10.4        12.5         2.1               2.1          14.6            0           2.1            27.1          10.4




                                   Lexington Street                      Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                       Lexington Street                   Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)
                                     From North                                   From East                                     From South                                From West
       Start Time        Right      Thru         Left App. Total         Right   Thru      Left App. Total         Right       Thru       Left    App. Total     Right   Thru      Left App. Total            Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:15 AM
        07:15 AM              0         0          0           0             0        2        0           2          0              1        0            1         0          1             0           1           4
        07:30 AM              0         2          1           3             2        1        0           3          0              1        0            1         0          2             0           2           9
        07:45 AM              0         0          1           1             1        1        0           2          1              2        0            3         0          2             3           5          11
        08:00 AM              0         0          0           0             0        1        1           2          0              1        0            1         0          1             1           2           5
     Total Volume             0         2          2           4             3        5        1           9          1              5        0            6         0          6             4          10          29
     % App. Total             0        50         50                      33.3     55.6     11.1                   16.7           83.3        0                      0         60            40
              PHF         .000      .250        .500       .333           .375     .625     .250        .750       .250           .625     .000        .500       .000       .750          .333      .500          .659
                                                                                     Transportation Data Corporation
                                                                                       Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
                                                                                        t (781) 587-0086 f (781) 587-0089
N/S: Lexington Street                                                                                                                                                                             File Name            : 04051D
E/W: Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                                                                                                                                                               Site Code            : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                                                           Start Date           : 11/17/2010
Client: VHB/M. Kealey                                                                                                                                                                             Page No              :1



                                   Lexington Street                                 Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                     Lexington Street                   Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)
                                     From North                                              From East                                   From South                                From West
       Start Time        Right      Thru         Left App. Total                    Right   Thru      Left App. Total         Right     Thru       Left   App. Total      Right   Thru      Left App. Total                     Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
        07:30 AM              0        77          33       110                         23       74         19         116       50        44         3          97            2                111               94    207          530
        07:45 AM              5        74          31       110                         38       95         26         159       39        61         4         104           10                113               80    203          576
        08:00 AM              1        87         39        127                         20       94         25         139       40        60         4         104            7                107               87    201          571
        08:15 AM              2        74          32       108                         20     111          28         159       34        54         3          91            6                  90              77    173          531
     Total Volume             8      312         135        455                       101      374          98         573     163       219         14         396           25                421             338     784         2208
     % App. Total           1.8     68.6        29.7                                 17.6     65.3       17.1                 41.2      55.3        3.5                      3.2               53.7            43.1
              PHF         .400      .897        .865       .896                      .664     .842       .875         .901    .815      .898      .875         .952        .625                .931            .899     .947         .958
              Cars            8      310         130        448                         98     371          97         566     162       215         14         391           25                415             334      774        2179
           % Cars          100      99.4        96.3       98.5                      97.0     99.2       99.0         98.8    99.4      98.2       100         98.7         100                98.6            98.8     98.7         98.7
            Trucks            0         2           5          7                         3        3          1            7       1         4         0            5           0                   6               4       10           29
         % Trucks             0       0.6         3.7        1.5                       3.0      0.8        1.0          1.2     0.6       1.8         0          1.3           0                 1.4             1.2      1.3          1.3


                                                                                                                Lexington Street
                                                                                                            Out       In      Total
                                                                                                             647       448     1095
                                                                                                              11         7       18
                                                                                                             658       455     1113


                                                                                                                     8  310  130
                                                                                                                     0     2    5
                                                                                                                     8  312  135
                                                                                                                 Right Thru Left




                                                                                                       Peak Hour Data


                                                                                                                                                                              Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)
                                     Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)


                                                              13
                                                           1167

                                                           1180
                                                           Total




                                                                                                                                                                                  Out
                                                                                                                                                                                   719

                                                                                                                                                                                   707
                                                                          4
                                                                       334

                                                                       338




                                                                                                                                                            Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                                                    12
                                                                      Left




                                                                                                                                                             101




                                                                                                                      North
                                                                                                                                                               98
                                                                                                                                                                3
                                                     10
                                                    774

                                                    784




                                                                                                      Peak Hour Begins at 07:30 AM
                                                                                6
                                                                             415

                                                                             421
                                                                      Right Thru
                                                   In




                                                                                                                                                                                           In
                                                                                                                                                                   374

                                                                                                                                                                   371


                                                                                                                                                                                            573

                                                                                                                                                                                            566
                                                                                                                                                                      3




                                                                                                                                                                                              7




                                                                                                      Cars
                                                                                                      Trucks
                                                                          0
                                                                         25

                                                                         25




                                                                                                                                                            Left
                                             3
                                          393

                                          396
                                         Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                   Total
                                                                                                                                                              98

                                                                                                                                                              97


                                                                                                                                                                                                   1292

                                                                                                                                                                                                   1273
                                                                                                                                                                1




                                                                                                                                                                                                      19




                                                                                                                 Left Thru Right
                                                                                                                   14  215   162
                                                                                                                     0    4    1
                                                                                                                   14  219   163


                                                                                                             432       391       823
                                                                                                                3        5         8
                                                                                                             435       396       831
                                                                                                            Out       In      Total
                                                                                                                Lexington Street
                                                                        Transportation Data Corporation
                                                                          Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
                                                                           t (781) 587-0086 f (781) 587-0089
N/S: Lexington Street                                                                                                                                                      File Name               : 04051DD
E/W: Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                                                                                                                                        Site Code               : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                                    Start Date              : 11/17/2010
Client: VHB/M. Kealey                                                                                                                                                      Page No                 :1

                                                                                        Groups Printed- Cars - Trucks
                                       Lexington Street                  Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                 Lexington Street                      Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)
                                         From North                               From East                               From South                                   From West
               Start Time         Right        Thru            Left         Right       Thru          Left         Right        Thru                  Left       Right       Thru          Left                Int. Total
               04:00 PM               0           70            37             44         99            19            22           69                   4            8         97            85                      554
               04:15 PM               2           64            31             38         87            15            33           44                   1            9         80            82                      486
               04:30 PM               3           61            30             42         78            18            21           42                   2            8        103            91                      499
               04:45 PM               2           65            32             43         92            17            16           56                   1            7        107            87                      525
                     Total            7         260            130           167         356            69            92         211                    8           32        387          345                      2064

               05:00 PM                0           78           38              38         119            22             33             46              7             5           93              71                550
               05:15 PM                0           70           29              39         120            18             39             58              1             3          153             101                631
               05:30 PM                1           55           34              34          93            19             47             68              4             5          151              94                605
               05:45 PM                0           68           32              38         108            19             35             68              1             7          129              92                597
                    Total              1          271          133             149         440            78            154            240             13            20          526             358               2383

             Grand Total               8          531           263             316         796          147             246            451            21            52           913             703              4447
              Apprch %                 1         66.2          32.8            25.1        63.2         11.7            34.3           62.8           2.9           3.1          54.7            42.1
                 Total %             0.2         11.9            5.9             7.1       17.9           3.3             5.5          10.1           0.5           1.2          20.5            15.8
                    Cars               8          531           261             316         789          147             246            450            21            52           912             695              4428
                 % Cars             100           100          99.2             100        99.1          100             100           99.8          100           100           99.9            98.9               99.6
                  Trucks               0            0              2               0           7            0               0              1            0             0              1               8                19
               % Trucks                0            0            0.8               0         0.9            0               0            0.2            0             0            0.1             1.1               0.4




                                   Lexington Street                    Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                       Lexington Street                    Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)
                                     From North                                 From East                                     From South                                 From West
       Start Time        Right      Thru         Left App. Total       Right   Thru      Left App. Total        Right        Thru       Left     App. Total     Right   Thru      Left App. Total              Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
        05:00 PM              0       78          38        116           38       119       22        179        33              46         7          86           5      93              71           169        550
        05:15 PM              0        70         29         99           39       120       18        177        39              58         1          98           3     153            101            257        631
        05:30 PM              1        55         34         90           34         93      19        146        47              68         4         119           5     151              94           250        605
        05:45 PM              0        68         32        100           38       108       19        165        35              68         1         104           7     129              92           228        597
     Total Volume             1      271         133        405          149       440       78        667       154             240        13         407          20     526            358            904       2383
     % App. Total           0.2     66.9        32.8                    22.3         66    11.7                 37.8              59       3.2                     2.2    58.2           39.6
              PHF         .250      .869        .875       .873         .955      .917     .886       .932      .819            .882     .464         .855       .714     .859           .886        .879           .944
              Cars            1      271         133        405          149       439       78        666       154             240        13         407          20     526            354         900          2378
           % Cars          100       100         100        100          100      99.8      100       99.9       100             100      100          100        100      100           98.9        99.6           99.8
            Trucks            0         0          0           0           0          1       0           1        0               0         0           0           0       0               4           4              5
         % Trucks             0         0          0           0           0        0.2       0         0.1        0               0         0           0           0       0             1.1         0.4            0.2
                                                                          Transportation Data Corporation
                                                                            Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
                                                                             t (781) 587-0086 f (781) 587-0089
N/S: Lexington Street                                                                                                                                                     File Name            : 04051DD
E/W: Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                                                                                                                                       Site Code            : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                                   Start Date           : 11/17/2010
Client: VHB/M. Kealey                                                                                                                                                     Page No              :1

                                                                                             Groups Printed- Trucks
                                       Lexington Street                    Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                Lexington Street                  Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)
                                         From North                                 From East                              From South                               From West
               Start Time         Right        Thru                Left       Right       Thru          Left        Right        Thru              Left       Right       Thru          Left             Int. Total
               04:00 PM               0            0                 0            0          1             0            0            0               0            0          1            1                       3
               04:15 PM               0            0                 0            0          3             0            0            0               0            0          0            1                       4
               04:30 PM               0            0                 2            0          1             0            0            1               0            0          0            2                       6
               04:45 PM               0            0                 0            0          1             0            0            0               0            0          0            0                       1
                     Total            0            0                 2            0          6             0            0            1               0            0          1            4                     14

               05:00 PM                0            0                0             0            1              0           0            0            0               0            0             2                 3
               05:15 PM                0            0                0             0            0              0           0            0            0               0            0             2                 2
               05:30 PM                0            0                0             0            0              0           0            0            0               0            0             0                 0
               05:45 PM                0            0                0             0            0              0           0            0            0               0            0             0                 0
                    Total              0            0                0             0            1              0           0            0            0               0            0             4                 5

             Grand Total               0            0             2                0            7              0           0             1           0               0             1             8              19
              Apprch %                 0            0           100                0          100              0           0          100            0               0          11.1          88.9
                 Total %               0            0          10.5                0         36.8              0           0           5.3           0               0           5.3          42.1




                                   Lexington Street                      Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                    Lexington Street                  Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)
                                     From North                                   From East                                  From South                               From West
       Start Time        Right      Thru         Left App. Total         Right   Thru      Left App. Total         Right    Thru       Left   App. Total     Right   Thru      Left App. Total           Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:00 PM
        04:00 PM              0         0          0           0             0        1        0           1          0           0       0            0         0          1             1          2           3
        04:15 PM              0         0          0           0             0        3        0           3          0           0       0            0         0          0             1          1           4
        04:30 PM              0         0          2           2             0        1        0           1          0           1       0            1         0          0             2          2           6
        04:45 PM              0         0          0           0             0        1        0           1          0           0       0            0         0          0             0          0           1
     Total Volume             0         0          2           2             0        6        0           6          0           1       0            1         0          1             4          5          14
     % App. Total             0         0        100                         0      100        0                      0         100       0                      0         20            80
              PHF         .000      .000        .250       .250           .000     .500     .000        .500       .000        .250    .000        .250       .000       .250          .500      .625         .583
                                                                                     Transportation Data Corporation
                                                                                       Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
                                                                                        t (781) 587-0086 f (781) 587-0089
N/S: Lexington Street                                                                                                                                                                            File Name            : 04051DD
E/W: Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                                                                                                                                                              Site Code            : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                                                          Start Date           : 11/17/2010
Client: VHB/M. Kealey                                                                                                                                                                            Page No              :1



                                   Lexington Street                                 Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                    Lexington Street                   Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)
                                     From North                                              From East                                  From South                                From West
       Start Time        Right      Thru         Left App. Total                    Right   Thru      Left App. Total        Right     Thru       Left   App. Total      Right   Thru      Left App. Total                     Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
        05:00 PM              0       78          38        116                        38      119         22         179      33        46          7          86            5                 93               71    169          550
        05:15 PM              0        70         29         99                        39      120         18         177      39        58          1          98            3                153             101     257          631
        05:30 PM              1        55         34         90                        34        93        19         146      47        68          4         119            5                151               94    250          605
        05:45 PM              0        68         32        100                        38      108         19         165      35        68          1         104            7                129               92    228          597
     Total Volume             1      271         133        405                       149      440         78         667     154       240         13         407           20                526             358     904         2383
     % App. Total           0.2     66.9        32.8                                 22.3        66      11.7                37.8        59        3.2                      2.2               58.2            39.6
              PHF         .250      .869        .875       .873                      .955     .917       .886        .932    .819      .882      .464         .855        .714                .859            .886     .879         .944
              Cars            1      271         133        405                       149      439         78         666     154       240         13         407           20                526             354      900        2378
           % Cars          100       100         100        100                       100     99.8        100        99.9     100       100       100          100         100                 100            98.9     99.6         99.8
            Trucks            0         0          0           0                        0         1         0            1      0         0          0           0            0                  0                4        4            5
         % Trucks             0         0          0           0                        0       0.2         0          0.1      0         0          0           0            0                  0              1.1      0.4          0.2


                                                                                                               Lexington Street
                                                                                                           Out       In      Total
                                                                                                            743       405     1148
                                                                                                               4        0        4
                                                                                                            747       405     1152


                                                                                                                    1  271  133
                                                                                                                    0     0    0
                                                                                                                    1  271  133
                                                                                                                Right Thru Left




                                                                                                       Peak Hour Data


                                                                                                                                                                             Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)
                                     Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)


                                                               5
                                                           1353

                                                           1358
                                                           Total




                                                                                                                                                                                 Out
                                                                                                                                                                                  813

                                                                                                                                                                                  813
                                                                          4
                                                                       354

                                                                       358




                                                                                                                                                           Right Thru
                                                                      Left




                                                                                                                                                            149

                                                                                                                                                            149



                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                     North
                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                      4
                                                    900

                                                    904




                                                                                                      Peak Hour Begins at 05:00 PM
                                                                                0
                                                                             526

                                                                             526
                                                                      Right Thru
                                                   In




                                                                                                                                                                                          In
                                                                                                                                                                  440

                                                                                                                                                                  439


                                                                                                                                                                                           667

                                                                                                                                                                                           666
                                                                                                                                                                     1




                                                                                                                                                                                             1




                                                                                                      Cars
                                                                                                      Trucks
                                                                          0
                                                                         20

                                                                         20




                                                                                                                                                           Left
                                             1
                                          453

                                          454
                                         Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                  Total
                                                                                                                                                             78

                                                                                                                                                             78


                                                                                                                                                                                                  1480

                                                                                                                                                                                                  1479
                                                                                                                                                               0




                                                                                                                                                                                                      1




                                                                                                                Left Thru Right
                                                                                                                  13  240   154
                                                                                                                    0    0    0
                                                                                                                  13  240   154


                                                                                                            369       407       776
                                                                                                               0        0         0
                                                                                                            369       407       776
                                                                                                           Out       In      Total
                                                                                                               Lexington Street
                                                                         Transportation Data Corporation
                                                                           Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
                                                                            t (781) 587-0086 f (781) 587-0089
N/S: Washington Street (Route 16)                                                                                                                                        File Name                : 04051E
E/W: Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                                                                                                                                      Site Code                : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                                  Start Date               : 11/18/2010
Client: VHB/M. Kealey                                                                                                                                                    Page No                  :1

                                                                                         Groups Printed- Cars - Trucks
                                Washington Street (Route 16)              Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)          Washington Street (Route 16)             Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)
                                         From North                                From East                              From South                                From West
               Start Time        Right         Thru          Left            Right       Thru          Left         Right        Thru          Left           Right       Thru          Left                  Int. Total
               07:00 AM              2          172           14                 9         57            13            27         329           10                8        101            12                        754
               07:15 AM             10          200            6                 7         70            37            26         298            3               16        126            16                        815
               07:30 AM              5          156            7                12        105            38            44         281            8               12        131            22                        821
               07:45 AM              7          226            7                 7        115            57            63         257           10               14        137            22                        922
                     Total          24          754           34                35        347          145           160         1165           31               50        495            72                       3312

               08:00 AM              19           196               8              8        105           49              45             269       13             16            118               29               875
               08:15 AM               7           246               5              6        119           59              41             254       11             15            115                9               887
               08:30 AM              12           236               5             11        117           45              39             248        7             27            123               22               892
               08:45 AM               9           265               6             10        116           56              49             262       14              8             92               14               901
                    Total            47           943              24             35        457          209             174            1033       45             66            448               74              3555

             Grand Total             71         1697             58                70        804         354          334               2198        76           116             943             146              6867
              Apprch %              3.9          92.9           3.2               5.7       65.5        28.8         12.8                84.3      2.9            9.6           78.3            12.1
                 Total %              1          24.7           0.8                 1       11.7          5.2          4.9                 32      1.1            1.7           13.7              2.1
                    Cars             69         1683             58                69        796         350          329               2172        73           112             922             143              6776
                 % Cars            97.2          99.2          100               98.6         99        98.9         98.5                98.8     96.1          96.6            97.8            97.9               98.7
                  Trucks              2            14             0                 1          8            4            5                 26        3              4              21               3                91
               % Trucks             2.8           0.8             0               1.4          1          1.1          1.5                1.2      3.9            3.4             2.2             2.1               1.3




                           Washington Street (Route 16)                 Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)            Washington Street (Route 16)               Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)
                                     From North                                  From East                                From South                                  From West
       Start Time        Right      Thru         Left App. Total        Right   Thru      Left App. Total       Right    Thru        Left App. Total         Right   Thru      Left App. Total                Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
        07:45 AM              7      226            7       240              7      115       57        179         63           257         10    330           14      137               22           173        922
        08:00 AM             19      196            8       223              8      105       49        162         45           269         13    327           16      118               29           163        875
        08:15 AM              7      246            5       258              6      119       59        184         41           254         11    306           15      115                9           139        887
        08:30 AM             12      236            5       253             11      117       45        173         39           248          7    294           27      123               22           172        892
     Total Volume            45      904           25       974             32      456     210         698       188          1028          41   1257           72      493               82           647       3576
     % App. Total           4.6     92.8          2.6                      4.6     65.3    30.1                     15          81.8        3.3               11.1      76.2            12.7
              PHF         .592      .919        .781       .944          .727      .958    .890        .948      .746           .955      .788     .952       .667      .900            .707        .935           .970
              Cars           44      896           25       965             32      452     209         693       186          1012          39   1237           69      482               79        630          3525
           % Cars         97.8      99.1         100       99.1           100      99.1    99.5        99.3      98.9           98.4      95.1     98.4       95.8      97.8            96.3        97.4           98.6
            Trucks            1         8           0          9             0         4       1           5         2             16         2       20          3        11               3          17             51
         % Trucks           2.2       0.9           0        0.9             0       0.9     0.5         0.7       1.1            1.6       4.9      1.6        4.2       2.2             3.7         2.6            1.4
                                                                        Transportation Data Corporation
                                                                          Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
                                                                           t (781) 587-0086 f (781) 587-0089
N/S: Washington Street (Route 16)                                                                                                                                     File Name             : 04051E
E/W: Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                                                                                                                                   Site Code             : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                               Start Date            : 11/18/2010
Client: VHB/M. Kealey                                                                                                                                                 Page No               :1

                                                                                           Groups Printed- Trucks
                                Washington Street (Route 16)             Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)        Washington Street (Route 16)            Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)
                                         From North                               From East                             From South                              From West
               Start Time        Right         Thru          Left           Right       Thru          Left        Right       Thru          Left          Right       Thru          Left               Int. Total
               07:00 AM              0             1           0                0          1             0            1           2           1               0          0            0                         6
               07:15 AM              0             2           0                0          0             0            0           4           0               0          3            0                         9
               07:30 AM              0             2           0                0          1             0            0           3           0               1          2            0                         9
               07:45 AM              0             2           0                0          1             0            0           3           0               1          2            2                       11
                     Total           0             7           0                0          3             0            1          12           1               2          7            2                       35

               08:00 AM                1            1              0             0           0              1           0            6            1              0            4              0                14
               08:15 AM                0            2              0             0           1              0           1            4            1              2            2              0                13
               08:30 AM                0            3              0             0           2              0           1            3            0              0            3              1                13
               08:45 AM                1            1              0             1           2              3           2            1            0              0            5              0                16
                    Total              2            7              0             1           5              4           4           14            2              2           14              1                56

             Grand Total              2            14              0             1           8           4              5            26           3            4              21              3               91
              Apprch %             12.5          87.5              0           7.7        61.5        30.8           14.7          76.5         8.8         14.3              75           10.7
                 Total %            2.2          15.4              0           1.1         8.8         4.4            5.5          28.6         3.3          4.4            23.1            3.3




                           Washington Street (Route 16)                Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)             Washington Street (Route 16)           Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)
                                     From North                                 From East                                 From South                              From West
       Start Time        Right      Thru         Left App. Total       Right   Thru      Left App. Total        Right    Thru        Left App. Total     Right   Thru      Left App. Total             Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
        08:00 AM             1          1          0           2           0        0        1          1          0           6        1          7         0          4              0           4          14
        08:15 AM              0         2          0           2           0        1        0          1          1           4        1          6         2          2              0           4          13
        08:30 AM              0         3          0           3           0        2        0          2          1           3        0          4         0          3              1           4          13
        08:45 AM              1         1          0           2           1        2        3          6          2           1        0          3         0          5              0           5          16
     Total Volume             2         7          0           9           1        5        4         10          4          14        2         20         2         14              1          17          56
     % App. Total         22.2      77.8           0                      10       50       40                    20          70       10                 11.8       82.4            5.9
              PHF         .500      .583        .000       .750         .250     .625     .333       .417       .500        .583     .500       .714      .250       .700          .250       .850          .875
                                                                                    Transportation Data Corporation
                                                                                      Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
                                                                                       t (781) 587-0086 f (781) 587-0089
N/S: Washington Street (Route 16)                                                                                                                                                               File Name            : 04051E
E/W: Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                                                                                                                                                             Site Code            : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                                                         Start Date           : 11/18/2010
Client: VHB/M. Kealey                                                                                                                                                                           Page No              :1



                           Washington Street (Route 16)                            Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)              Washington Street (Route 16)             Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)
                                     From North                                             From East                                  From South                                From West
       Start Time        Right      Thru         Left App. Total                   Right   Thru      Left App. Total         Right    Thru        Left App. Total       Right   Thru      Left App. Total                     Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
        07:45 AM              7      226            7       240                         7     115          57         179       63      257         10       330            14                137               22    173          922
        08:00 AM             19      196            8       223                         8     105          49         162       45      269         13       327            16                118               29    163          875
        08:15 AM              7      246            5       258                         6     119          59         184       41      254         11       306            15                115                9    139          887
        08:30 AM             12      236            5       253                        11     117          45         173       39      248          7       294            27                123               22    172          892
     Total Volume            45      904           25       974                        32     456        210          698     188     1028          41      1257            72                493               82    647         3576
     % App. Total           4.6     92.8          2.6                                 4.6    65.3       30.1                    15     81.8        3.3                   11.1                76.2            12.7
              PHF         .592      .919        .781       .944                     .727     .958       .890         .948    .746      .955      .788        .952        .667                .900            .707     .935         .970
              Cars           44      896           25       965                        32     452        209          693     186     1012          39      1237            69                482               79     630        3525
           % Cars         97.8      99.1         100       99.1                      100     99.1       99.5         99.3    98.9      98.4      95.1        98.4        95.8                97.8            96.3     97.4         98.6
            Trucks            1         8           0          9                        0        4          1            5       2        16         2          20           3                  11               3       17           51
         % Trucks           2.2       0.9           0        0.9                        0      0.9        0.5          0.7     1.1       1.6       4.9         1.6         4.2                 2.2             3.7      2.6          1.4


                                                                                                        Washington Street (Route 16)
                                                                                                         Out       In       Total
                                                                                                         1123       965      2088
                                                                                                           19         9        28
                                                                                                         1142       974      2116


                                                                                                                   44  896   25
                                                                                                                    1     8    0
                                                                                                                   45  904   25
                                                                                                                Right Thru Left




                                                                                                      Peak Hour Data


                                                                                                                                                                            Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)
                                     Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)


                                                              24
                                                           1165

                                                           1189
                                                           Total




                                                                                                                                                                                Out
                                                                                                                                                                                 706

                                                                                                                                                                                 693
                                                                          3
                                                                        79

                                                                        82




                                                                                                                                                          Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                                                  13
                                                                      Left




                                                                                                                     North
                                                                                                                                                             32

                                                                                                                                                             32
                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                     17
                                                    630

                                                    647




                                                                                                     Peak Hour Begins at 07:45 AM
                                                                              11
                                                                             482

                                                                             493
                                                                      Right Thru
                                                   In




                                                                                                                                                                                         In
                                                                                                                                                                 456

                                                                                                                                                                 452


                                                                                                                                                                                          698

                                                                                                                                                                                          693
                                                                                                                                                                    4




                                                                                                                                                                                            5




                                                                                                     Cars
                                                                                                     Trucks
                                                                          3
                                                                         69

                                                                         72




                                                                                                                                                          Left
                                             7
                                          535

                                          542




                                                                                                                                                           210

                                                                                                                                                           209
                                         Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                 Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                 1404

                                                                                                                                                                                                 1386
                                                                                                                                                              1




                                                                                                                                                                                                    18




                                                                                                                Left Thru Right
                                                                                                                  39 1012   186
                                                                                                                    2   16    2
                                                                                                                  41 1028   188


                                                                                                         1174      1237      2411
                                                                                                           12        20        32
                                                                                                         1186      1257      2443
                                                                                                         Out       In       Total
                                                                                                        Washington Street (Route 16)
                                                                         Transportation Data Corporation
                                                                           Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
                                                                            t (781) 587-0086 f (781) 587-0089
N/S: Washington Street (Route 16)                                                                                                                                      File Name            : 04051EE
E/W: Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                                                                                                                                    Site Code            : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                                Start Date           : 11/18/2010
Client: VHB/M. Kealey                                                                                                                                                  Page No              :1

                                                                                         Groups Printed- Cars - Trucks
                                Washington Street (Route 16)              Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)          Washington Street (Route 16)            Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)
                                         From North                                From East                              From South                               From West
               Start Time        Right         Thru          Left            Right       Thru          Left         Right        Thru          Left          Right       Thru          Left             Int. Total
               04:00 PM             12          209            8                11         96            39            24         214           15              19         95            20                   762
               04:15 PM             10          264            6                13        107            48            40         300           20              11         81            14                   914
               04:30 PM             12          245           10                 8         79            35            30         278           15              11        119            23                   865
               04:45 PM             11          196            4                11        113            27            38         274           13              11        116            15                   829
                     Total          45          914           28                43        395          149           132         1066           63              52        411            72                  3370

               05:00 PM              16           237               5              9        108           33              40             263      18             10          142            19               900
               05:15 PM              14           246               6              8        100           34              40             298      15             10          152            20               943
               05:30 PM               7           222              13             17        105           38              45             275      11             21          149            17               920
               05:45 PM               5           219              15              6         98           34              38             305      10             20          150            17               917
                    Total            42           924              39             40        411          139             163            1141      54             61          593            73              3680

             Grand Total              87        1838             67                83        806         288          295               2207     117           113        1004             145              7050
              Apprch %               4.4         92.3           3.4               7.1       68.5        24.5         11.3                84.3     4.5             9        79.6           11.5
                 Total %             1.2         26.1             1               1.2       11.4          4.1          4.2               31.3     1.7           1.6        14.2             2.1
                    Cars              87        1824             66                82        796         282          293               2197     117           113        1002             144              7003
                 % Cars             100          99.2          98.5              98.8       98.8        97.9         99.3                99.5    100           100         99.8           99.3               99.3
                  Trucks               0           14             1                 1          10           6            2                 10       0             0           2               1                47
               % Trucks                0          0.8           1.5               1.2         1.2         2.1          0.7                0.5       0             0         0.2             0.7               0.7




                           Washington Street (Route 16)                 Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)            Washington Street (Route 16)              Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)
                                     From North                                  From East                                From South                                 From West
       Start Time        Right      Thru         Left App. Total        Right   Thru      Left App. Total       Right    Thru        Left App. Total        Right   Thru      Left App. Total           Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
        05:00 PM             16      237            5       258              9      108       33        150         40           263        18    321           10     142           19           171        900
        05:15 PM             14      246            6       266              8      100       34        142         40           298        15    353           10     152           20           182        943
        05:30 PM              7      222           13       242             17      105       38        160         45           275        11    331           21     149           17           187        920
        05:45 PM              5      219          15        239              6        98      34        138         38           305        10    353           20     150           17           187        917
     Total Volume            42      924           39      1005             40      411     139         590       163          1141         54   1358           61     593           73           727       3680
     % App. Total           4.2     91.9          3.9                      6.8     69.7    23.6                     12             84        4                 8.4    81.6           10
              PHF         .656      .939        .650       .945          .588      .951    .914        .922      .906           .935      .750    .962       .726     .975         .913       .972           .976
              Cars           42      921           38      1001             40      407     134         581       162          1136         54   1352           61     593           73        727          3661
           % Cars          100      99.7        97.4       99.6           100      99.0    96.4        98.5      99.4           99.6       100    99.6        100      100          100        100           99.5
            Trucks            0         3           1          4             0         4       5           9         1              5        0        6          0       0            0          0              19
         % Trucks             0       0.3         2.6        0.4             0       1.0     3.6         1.5       0.6            0.4        0      0.4          0       0            0          0             0.5
                                                                          Transportation Data Corporation
                                                                            Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
                                                                             t (781) 587-0086 f (781) 587-0089
N/S: Washington Street (Route 16)                                                                                                                                       File Name            : 04051EE
E/W: Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                                                                                                                                     Site Code            : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                                 Start Date           : 11/18/2010
Client: VHB/M. Kealey                                                                                                                                                   Page No              :1

                                                                                             Groups Printed- Trucks
                                Washington Street (Route 16)               Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)        Washington Street (Route 16)            Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)
                                         From North                                 From East                             From South                              From West
               Start Time        Right         Thru          Left             Right       Thru          Left        Right       Thru          Left          Right       Thru          Left             Int. Total
               04:00 PM              0             2           0                  1          2             0            1           2           0               0          0            0                       8
               04:15 PM              0             3           0                  0          1             0            0           1           0               0          1            0                       6
               04:30 PM              0             3           0                  0          0             1            0           2           0               0          1            1                       8
               04:45 PM              0             3           0                  0          3             0            0           0           0               0          0            0                       6
                     Total           0            11           0                  1          6             1            1           5           0               0          2            1                     28

               05:00 PM                0            0               0              0           0              0           0             3           0              0            0             0                3
               05:15 PM                0            2               0              0           1              2           0             1           0              0            0             0                6
               05:30 PM                0            1               1              0           3              2           0             1           0              0            0             0                8
               05:45 PM                0            0               0              0           0              1           1             0           0              0            0             0                2
                    Total              0            3               1              0           4              5           1             5           0              0            0             0               19

             Grand Total               0           14                1             1          10           6              2            10           0              0             2             1              47
              Apprch %                 0         93.3              6.7           5.9        58.8        35.3           16.7          83.3           0              0          66.7          33.3
                 Total %               0         29.8              2.1           2.1        21.3        12.8            4.3          21.3           0              0           4.3           2.1




                           Washington Street (Route 16)                  Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)             Washington Street (Route 16)           Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)
                                     From North                                   From East                                 From South                              From West
       Start Time        Right      Thru         Left App. Total         Right   Thru      Left App. Total        Right    Thru        Left App. Total     Right   Thru      Left App. Total           Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:00 PM
        04:00 PM              0         2          0           2             1        2        0          3          1           2        0          3         0          0             0          0           8
        04:15 PM              0         3          0           3             0        1        0          1          0           1        0          1         0          1             0          1           6
        04:30 PM              0         3          0           3             0        0        1          1          0           2        0          2         0          1             1          2           8
        04:45 PM              0         3          0           3             0        3        0          3          0           0        0          0         0          0             0          0           6
     Total Volume             0        11          0         11              1        6        1          8          1           5        0          6         0          2             1          3          28
     % App. Total             0      100           0                      12.5       75     12.5                  16.7        83.3        0                    0       66.7          33.3
              PHF         .000      .917        .000       .917           .250     .500     .250       .667       .250        .625     .000       .500      .000       .500          .250      .375         .875
                                                                                     Transportation Data Corporation
                                                                                       Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
                                                                                        t (781) 587-0086 f (781) 587-0089
N/S: Washington Street (Route 16)                                                                                                                                                                File Name           : 04051EE
E/W: Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                                                                                                                                                              Site Code           : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                                                          Start Date          : 11/18/2010
Client: VHB/M. Kealey                                                                                                                                                                            Page No             :1



                           Washington Street (Route 16)                             Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)              Washington Street (Route 16)             Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)
                                     From North                                              From East                                  From South                                From West
       Start Time        Right      Thru         Left App. Total                    Right   Thru      Left App. Total         Right    Thru        Left App. Total       Right   Thru      Left App. Total                   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
        05:00 PM             16      237            5       258                          9     108          33         150       40      263        18        321            10                142              19    171         900
        05:15 PM             14      246            6       266                          8     100          34         142       40      298        15        353            10                152              20    182         943
        05:30 PM              7      222           13       242                         17     105          38         160       45      275        11        331            21                149              17    187         920
        05:45 PM              5      219          15        239                          6       98         34         138       38      305        10        353            20                150              17    187         917
     Total Volume            42      924           39      1005                         40     411        139          590     163     1141         54       1358            61                593              73    727        3680
     % App. Total           4.2     91.9          3.9                                  6.8    69.7       23.6                    12        84        4                      8.4               81.6              10
              PHF         .656      .939        .650       .945                      .588     .951       .914         .922    .906      .935      .750        .962        .726                .975            .913    .972        .976
              Cars           42      921           38      1001                         40     407        134          581     162     1136         54       1352            61                593              73     727       3661
           % Cars          100      99.7        97.4       99.6                       100     99.0       96.4         98.5    99.4      99.6       100        99.6         100                 100             100     100        99.5
            Trucks            0         3           1          4                         0        4          5            9       1         5        0            6           0                  0               0       0           19
         % Trucks             0       0.3         2.6        0.4                         0      1.0        3.6          1.5     0.6       0.4        0          0.4           0                  0               0       0          0.5


                                                                                                         Washington Street (Route 16)
                                                                                                          Out       In       Total
                                                                                                          1249      1001      2250
                                                                                                              5        4         9
                                                                                                          1254      1005      2259


                                                                                                                    42  921   38
                                                                                                                     0     3    1
                                                                                                                    42  924   39
                                                                                                                 Right Thru Left




                                                                                                       Peak Hour Data


                                                                                                                                                                             Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)
                                     Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)


                                                               4
                                                           1230

                                                           1234
                                                           Total




                                                                                                                                                                                 Out
                                                                                                                                                                                  795

                                                                                                                                                                                  793
                                                                          0
                                                                        73

                                                                        73




                                                                                                                                                           Right Thru
                                                                      Left




                                                                                                                                                                                     2
                                                                                                                      North
                                                                                                                                                              40

                                                                                                                                                              40
                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                      0
                                                    727

                                                    727




                                                                                                      Peak Hour Begins at 05:00 PM
                                                                                0
                                                                             593

                                                                             593
                                                                      Right Thru
                                                   In




                                                                                                                                                                                          In
                                                                                                                                                                  411

                                                                                                                                                                  407


                                                                                                                                                                                           590

                                                                                                                                                                                           581
                                                                                                                                                                     4




                                                                                                                                                                                             9




                                                                                                      Cars
                                                                                                      Trucks
                                                                          0
                                                                         61

                                                                         61




                                                                                                                                                           Left
                                             4
                                          503

                                          507




                                                                                                                                                            139

                                                                                                                                                            134
                                         Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                  Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                  1385

                                                                                                                                                                                                  1374
                                                                                                                                                               5




                                                                                                                                                                                                     11




                                                                                                                 Left Thru Right
                                                                                                                   54 1136   162
                                                                                                                     0    5    1
                                                                                                                   54 1141   163


                                                                                                          1116      1352      2468
                                                                                                              8        6        14
                                                                                                          1124      1358      2482
                                                                                                          Out       In       Total
                                                                                                         Washington Street (Route 16)
                                                                            Transportation Data Corporation
                                                                            Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
                                                                             t (781) 587-0086 f (781) 587-0089
N/S: Pike Overpass/Perkins Street                                                                                                                                                            File Name                 : 04051F
E/W: Washington Street w/I-90 EB Access                                                                                                                                                      Site Code                 : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                                                      Start Date                : 11/17/2010
Client: VHB/M. Kealey                                                                                                                                                                        Page No                   :1

                                                                                           Groups Printed- Cars - Trucks
                                  Mass Pike Overpass                     Washington Street (Route 16)                                   Perkins Street                        Washington Street (Route 16)
                                      From North                                  From East                                              From South                                    From West
         Start Time       Right       Thru       Left    I-90 EB        Right     Thru        Left     Peds       Right                  Thru         Left        Peds       Right     Thru       Left I-90 EB                      Int. Total
          07:00 AM         227            0       38           82           0        0          0          0          3                      0          0             0          1       92          0      302                           745
          07:15 AM         289            1       44           80           0        0          0          0          2                      0          1             0          0      101          0      334                           852
          07:30 AM         305            0       64         131            0        0          0          0          7                      0          1             0          1      117          0      264                           890
          07:45 AM         256            0       75         129            0        0          0          0          3                      0          0             0          1       83          0      219                           766
               Total      1077            1      221         422            0        0          0          0         15                      0          2             0          3      393          0     1119                          3253

          08:00 AM         278            2        76        137             0           0             0            0            3           0             1           0             2        79               0         230             808
          08:15 AM         303            1        61        140             0           0             0            0            3           0             0           0             0        97               0         201             806
          08:30 AM         353            0        59        128             0           0             0            0            2           0             0           0             2       107               0         182             833
          08:45 AM         332            0        47        102             0           0             0            0            2           0             0           0             0       150               0         274             907
               Total      1266            3       243        507             0           0             0            0           10           0             1           0             4       433               0         887            3354

        Grand Total       2343           4        464         929            0           0             0            0         25             0             3           0          7           826              0       2006             6607
          Apprch %         62.6        0.1       12.4        24.8            0           0             0            0      89.3              0          10.7           0        0.2          29.1              0        70.7
            Total %        35.5        0.1          7        14.1            0           0             0            0        0.4             0             0           0        0.1          12.5              0        30.4
               Cars       2340           4        464         929            0           0             0            0         25             0             3           0          7           823              0       2000             6595
            % Cars         99.9        100        100         100            0           0             0            0       100              0           100           0       100           99.6              0        99.7             99.8
             Trucks           3          0          0           0            0           0             0            0          0             0             0           0          0              3             0           6               12
          % Trucks          0.1          0          0           0            0           0             0            0          0             0             0           0          0            0.4             0         0.3              0.2




                               Mass Pike Overpass                       Washington Street (Route 16)                                    Perkins Street                           Washington Street (Route 16)
                                    From North                                   From East                                               From South                                       From West
    Start Time     Right     Thru       Left I-90 EB App. Total     Right        Thru    Left   Peds       App. Total   Right        Thru        Left    Peds   App. Total   Right        Thru        Left   I-90 EB   App. Total    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
     08:00 AM        278          2      76      137      493          0        0          0       0               0       3            0        1          0          4         2          79          0      230         311           808
     08:15 AM        303          1      61      140      505          0        0          0       0               0       3            0        0          0          3         0          97          0      201         298           806
     08:30 AM        353          0      59      128      540          0        0          0       0               0       2            0        0          0          2         2        107           0      182         291           833
     08:45 AM        332          0      47      102      481          0        0          0       0               0       2            0        0          0          2         0        150           0      274         424           907
  Total Volume     1266           3     243      507    2019           0        0          0       0               0      10            0        1          0         11         4        433           0      887        1324          3354
  % App. Total      62.7        0.1      12     25.1                   0        0          0       0                    90.9            0      9.1          0                  0.3       32.7           0        67
           PHF      .897      .375     .799     .905     .935       .000     .000       .000    .000           .000     .833         .000    .250        .000       .688     .500        .722        .000     .809         .781          .924
           Cars    1264           3     243      507    2017           0        0          0       0              0       10            0        1          0         11         4        431           0      883        1318          3346
        % Cars      99.8       100      100      100     99.9          0        0          0       0              0      100            0     100           0        100      100        99.5           0     99.5         99.5          99.8
         Trucks         2         0       0        0         2         0        0          0       0              0        0            0        0          0          0         0           2          0         4            6             8
      % Trucks        0.2         0       0        0       0.1         0        0          0       0              0        0            0        0          0          0         0         0.5          0       0.5          0.5           0.2
                                                                              Transportation Data Corporation
                                                                              Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
                                                                               t (781) 587-0086 f (781) 587-0089
N/S: Pike Overpass/Perkins Street                                                                                                                                                              File Name                 : 04051F
E/W: Washington Street w/I-90 EB Access                                                                                                                                                        Site Code                 : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                                                        Start Date                : 11/17/2010
Client: VHB/M. Kealey                                                                                                                                                                          Page No                   :1

                                                                                                Groups Printed- Trucks
                                  Mass Pike Overpass                       Washington Street (Route 16)                                    Perkins Street                        Washington Street (Route 16)
                                      From North                                    From East                                               From South                                    From West
         Start Time       Right       Thru       Left    I-90 EB          Right     Thru       Left     Peds       Right                    Thru         Left        Peds       Right     Thru       Left I-90 EB                     Int. Total
          07:00 AM            0           0        0           0              0        0          0          0         0                        0          0             0          0        0          0       0                              0
          07:15 AM            0           0        0           0              0        0          0          0         0                        0          0             0          0        0          0       1                              1
          07:30 AM            1           0        0           0              0        0          0          0         0                        0          0             0          0        1          0       1                              3
          07:45 AM            0           0        0           0              0        0          0          0         0                        0          0             0          0        0          0       0                              0
               Total          1           0        0           0              0        0          0          0         0                        0          0             0          0        1          0       2                              4

          08:00 AM            0           0          0            0            0           0             0              0           0           0             0           0             0          1             0            1                2
          08:15 AM            2           0          0            0            0           0             0              0           0           0             0           0             0          0             0            2                4
          08:30 AM            0           0          0            0            0           0             0              0           0           0             0           0             0          0             0            1                1
          08:45 AM            0           0          0            0            0           0             0              0           0           0             0           0             0          1             0            0                1
               Total          2           0          0            0            0           0             0              0           0           0             0           0             0          2             0            4                8

        Grand Total           3           0          0            0            0           0             0              0           0           0             0           0             0         3              0           6               12
          Apprch %          100           0          0            0            0           0             0              0           0           0             0           0             0      33.3              0        66.7
            Total %          25           0          0            0            0           0             0              0           0           0             0           0             0        25              0          50




                               Mass Pike Overpass                         Washington Street (Route 16)                                     Perkins Street                           Washington Street (Route 16)
                                   From North                                      From East                                                From South                                       From West
    Start Time     Right     Thru       Left I-90 EB App. Total       Right        Thru    Left   Peds       App. Total     Right       Thru        Left    Peds   App. Total   Right       Thru        Left   I-90 EB   App. Total    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
     07:30 AM           1        0        0        0         1           0        0          0       0               0         0           0       0           0           0       0           1          0        1              2            3
     07:45 AM           0        0        0        0         0           0        0          0       0               0         0           0       0           0           0       0           0          0        0              0            0
     08:00 AM           0        0        0        0         0           0        0          0       0               0         0           0       0           0           0       0           1          0        1              2            2
     08:15 AM           2        0        0        0         2           0        0          0       0               0         0           0       0           0           0       0           0          0        2              2            4
  Total Volume          3        0        0        0         3           0        0          0       0               0         0           0       0           0           0       0           2          0        4              6            9
  % App. Total       100         0        0        0                     0        0          0       0                         0           0       0           0                   0        33.3          0     66.7
           PHF      .375      .000     .000     .000     .375         .000     .000       .000    .000           .000       .000        .000    .000        .000       .000     .000        .500       .000     .500         .750         .563
                                                                                       Transportation Data Corporation
                                                                                        Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
                                                                                         t (781) 587-0086 f (781) 587-0089
N/S: Pike Overpass/Perkins Street                                                                                                                                                                          File Name                     : 04051F
E/W: Washington Street w/I-90 EB Access                                                                                                                                                                    Site Code                     : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                                                                    Start Date                    : 11/17/2010
Client: VHB/M. Kealey                                                                                                                                                                                      Page No                       :1



                              Mass Pike Overpass                                   Washington Street (Route 16)                                Perkins Street                           Washington Street (Route 16)
                                    From North                                              From East                                           From South                                       From West
    Start Time Right         Thru       Left I-90 EB App. Total                Right     Thru    Left    Peds       App. Total     Right   Thru      Left       Peds   App. Total    Right          Thru                Left   I-90 EB   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
     08:00 AM        278          2      76      137      493                     0         0      0        0               0         3       0         1      0              4          2           79                0         230         311          808
     08:15 AM        303          1      61      140      505                     0         0      0        0               0         3       0         0      0              3          0           97                0         201         298          806
     08:30 AM        353          0      59      128      540                     0         0      0        0               0         2       0         0      0              2          2         107                 0         182         291          833
     08:45 AM        332          0      47      102      481                     0         0      0        0               0         2       0         0      0              2          0         150                 0         274         424          907
  Total Volume     1266           3     243      507    2019                      0         0      0        0               0        10       0         1      0             11          4         433                 0         887        1324         3354
  % App. Total      62.7        0.1      12     25.1                              0         0      0        0                      90.9       0       9.1      0                       0.3        32.7                 0           67
           PHF      .897      .375     .799     .905     .935                  .000      .000   .000     .000           .000       .833    .000     .250    .000           .688      .500         .722              .000        .809         .781         .924
           Cars    1264           3     243      507    2017                      0         0      0        0              0         10       0         1      0             11          4         431                 0         883        1318         3346
        % Cars      99.8       100      100      100     99.9                     0         0      0        0              0        100       0      100       0            100       100         99.5                 0        99.5         99.5         99.8
         Trucks         2         0       0        0         2                    0         0      0        0              0          0       0         0      0              0          0            2                0            4            6            8
      % Trucks        0.2         0       0        0       0.1                    0         0      0        0              0          0       0         0      0              0          0          0.5                0          0.5          0.5          0.2


                                                                                                           Mass Pike Overpass
                                                                                                          Out      In     Total
                                                                                                              0   2017     2017
                                                                                                              0       2       2
                                                                                                              0   2019     2019


                                                                                                         1264     3               243    507
                                                                                                            2     0                  0     0
                                                                                                         1266     3               243    507
                                                                                                        Right Thru               Left  I-90
                                                                                                                                        EB




                                                                                                        Peak Hour Data


                                                                                                                                                                                         Washington Street (Route 16)
                                      Washington Street (Route 16)


                                                                8



                                                                         0
                                                                         0
                                                                         0
                                                             2583

                                                             2591




                                                                                                                                                                       Right Thru
                                                            Total




                                                                     Left




                                                                                                                                                                                           Out
                                                                                                                                                                                            686

                                                                                                                                                                                            684
                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                           0



                                                                                                                                                                                               2
                                                                                                                         North
                                                                                    2
                                                                                 431

                                                                                 433
                                                                     I-90 Right Thru
                                                       6
                                                   1318

                                                   1324




                                                                                                   Peak Hour Begins at 08:00 AM
                                                    In




                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                 0




                                                                                                                                                                                                     In
                                                                              4
                                                                              0
                                                                              4




                                                                                                                                                                       Left Peds




                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                        0



                                                                                                   Cars
                                                                                                   Trucks
                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                             2
                                         1265

                                         1267
                                         Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                              Total
                                                                         4
                                                                       883

                                                                       887




                                                                                                                                                                                                                686

                                                                                                                                                                                                                684
                                                                      EB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2
                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                               0




                                                                                                         Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                                             1    0   10    0
                                                                                                             0    0    0    0
                                                                                                             1    0   10    0


                                                                                                                7    11        18
                                                                                                                0     0         0
                                                                                                                7    11        18
                                                                                                          Out      In       Total
                                                                                                              Perkins Street
                                                                             Transportation Data Corporation
                                                                             Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
                                                                              t (781) 587-0086 f (781) 587-0089
N/S: Pike Overpass/Perkins Street                                                                                                                                                           File Name                : 04051FF
E/W: Washington Street w/I-90 EB Access                                                                                                                                                     Site Code                : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                                                     Start Date               : 11/17/2010
Client: VHB/M. Kealey                                                                                                                                                                       Page No                  :1

                                                                                            Groups Printed- Cars - Trucks
                                  Mass Pike Overpass                      Washington Street (Route 16)                                  Perkins Street                        Washington Street (Route 16)
                                      From North                                   From East                                             From South                                    From West
         Start Time       Right       Thru       Left    I-90 EB         Right     Thru        Left     Peds       Right                 Thru         Left        Peds       Right     Thru       Left I-90 EB                    Int. Total
          04:00 PM         303            2       46           66            0        0          0          0          1                     0          1             0          2      153          0     164                          738
          04:15 PM         350            2       50           58            0        0          0          0          3                     0          0             0          1      166          0     199                          829
          04:30 PM         345            0       42           72            0        0          0          0          4                     0          1             0          1      172          0     176                          813
          04:45 PM         367            2       55           49            0        0          0          0          2                     0          1             0          0      155          0     195                          826
               Total      1365            6      193         245             0        0          0          0         10                     0          3             0          4      646          0     734                         3206

          05:00 PM         415           4         57         66              0           0             0            0           3           0             2           0             2      174              0         218             941
          05:15 PM         380           5         64         59              0           0             0            0           0           0             1           0             2      213              0         234             958
          05:30 PM         425           1         76         48              0           0             0            0           3           0             0           0             0      194              0         213             960
          05:45 PM         381           3         85         51              0           0             0            0           3           0             0           0             3      217              0         192             935
               Total      1601          13        282        224              0           0             0            0           9           0             3           0             7      798              0         857            3794

        Grand Total       2966          19        475         469             0           0             0            0         19            0              6          0         11        1444              0       1591             7000
          Apprch %         75.5        0.5       12.1        11.9             0           0             0            0         76            0             24          0        0.4         47.4             0        52.2
            Total %        42.4        0.3         6.8         6.7            0           0             0            0        0.3            0            0.1          0        0.2         20.6             0        22.7
               Cars       2964          19        473         465             0           0             0            0         19            0              6          0         11        1442              0       1589             6988
            % Cars         99.9        100       99.6        99.1             0           0             0            0       100             0           100           0       100          99.9             0        99.9             99.8
             Trucks           2          0           2           4            0           0             0            0          0            0              0          0          0            2             0           2               12
          % Trucks          0.1          0         0.4         0.9            0           0             0            0          0            0              0          0          0          0.1             0         0.1              0.2




                               Mass Pike Overpass                        Washington Street (Route 16)                                   Perkins Street                           Washington Street (Route 16)
                                    From North                                    From East                                              From South                                       From West
    Start Time     Right     Thru       Left I-90 EB App. Total      Right        Thru    Left   Peds       App. Total   Right       Thru        Left    Peds   App. Total   Right       Thru       Left   I-90 EB   App. Total    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
     05:00 PM        415          4      57       66      542           0        0          0       0               0       3           0       2           0          5         2        174         0      218         394           941
     05:15 PM        380          5      64        59     508           0        0          0       0               0       0           0       1           0          1         2        213         0      234         449           958
     05:30 PM        425          1      76        48     550           0        0          0       0               0       3           0       0           0          3         0        194         0      213         407           960
     05:45 PM        381          3      85        51     520           0        0          0       0               0       3           0       0           0          3         3        217         0      192         412           935
  Total Volume     1601          13     282      224    2120            0        0          0       0               0       9           0       3           0         12         7        798         0      857        1662          3794
  % App. Total      75.5        0.6    13.3     10.6                    0        0          0       0                      75           0      25           0                  0.4         48         0     51.6
           PHF      .942      .650     .829     .848     .964        .000     .000       .000    .000           .000     .750        .000    .375        .000       .600     .583        .919      .000     .916         .925          .988
           Cars    1601          13     282      222    2118            0        0          0       0              0        9           0       3           0         12         7        798         0      857        1662          3792
        % Cars       100       100      100     99.1     99.9           0        0          0       0              0      100           0     100           0        100      100         100         0      100          100          99.9
         Trucks         0         0       0         2        2          0        0          0       0              0        0           0       0           0          0         0          0         0        0            0              2
      % Trucks          0         0       0       0.9      0.1          0        0          0       0              0        0           0       0           0          0         0          0         0        0            0            0.1
                                                                              Transportation Data Corporation
                                                                              Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
                                                                               t (781) 587-0086 f (781) 587-0089
N/S: Pike Overpass/Perkins Street                                                                                                                                                              File Name                 : 04051FF
E/W: Washington Street w/I-90 EB Access                                                                                                                                                        Site Code                 : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                                                        Start Date                : 11/17/2010
Client: VHB/M. Kealey                                                                                                                                                                          Page No                   :1

                                                                                                Groups Printed- Trucks
                                  Mass Pike Overpass                       Washington Street (Route 16)                                    Perkins Street                        Washington Street (Route 16)
                                      From North                                    From East                                               From South                                    From West
         Start Time       Right       Thru       Left    I-90 EB          Right     Thru       Left     Peds       Right                    Thru         Left        Peds       Right     Thru       Left I-90 EB                     Int. Total
          04:00 PM            0           0        0           1              0        0          0          0         0                        0          0             0          0        1          0       1                              3
          04:15 PM            1           0        0           0              0        0          0          0         0                        0          0             0          0        0          0       1                              2
          04:30 PM            1           0        1           1              0        0          0          0         0                        0          0             0          0        1          0       0                              4
          04:45 PM            0           0        1           0              0        0          0          0         0                        0          0             0          0        0          0       0                              1
               Total          2           0        2           2              0        0          0          0         0                        0          0             0          0        2          0       2                            10

          05:00 PM            0           0          0            0            0           0             0              0           0           0             0           0             0          0             0            0                0
          05:15 PM            0           0          0            0            0           0             0              0           0           0             0           0             0          0             0            0                0
          05:30 PM            0           0          0            2            0           0             0              0           0           0             0           0             0          0             0            0                2
          05:45 PM            0           0          0            0            0           0             0              0           0           0             0           0             0          0             0            0                0
               Total          0           0          0            2            0           0             0              0           0           0             0           0             0          0             0            0                2

        Grand Total           2           0         2           4              0           0             0              0           0           0             0           0             0         2              0           2               12
          Apprch %           25           0        25          50              0           0             0              0           0           0             0           0             0        50              0          50
            Total %        16.7           0      16.7        33.3              0           0             0              0           0           0             0           0             0      16.7              0        16.7




                               Mass Pike Overpass                         Washington Street (Route 16)                                     Perkins Street                           Washington Street (Route 16)
                                   From North                                      From East                                                From South                                       From West
    Start Time     Right     Thru       Left I-90 EB App. Total       Right        Thru    Left   Peds       App. Total     Right       Thru        Left    Peds   App. Total   Right       Thru        Left   I-90 EB   App. Total    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:00 PM
     04:00 PM           0        0        0        1         1           0        0          0       0               0         0           0       0           0           0       0           1          0        1              2           3
     04:15 PM           1        0        0        0         1           0        0          0       0               0         0           0       0           0           0       0           0          0        1              1           2
     04:30 PM           1        0        1        1         3           0        0          0       0               0         0           0       0           0           0       0           1          0        0              1           4
     04:45 PM           0        0        1        0         1           0        0          0       0               0         0           0       0           0           0       0           0          0        0              0           1
  Total Volume          2        0        2        2         6           0        0          0       0               0         0           0       0           0           0       0           2          0        2              4          10
  % App. Total      33.3         0     33.3     33.3                     0        0          0       0                         0           0       0           0                   0          50          0       50
           PHF      .500      .000     .500     .500     .500         .000     .000       .000    .000           .000       .000        .000    .000        .000       .000     .000        .500       .000     .500         .500         .625
                                                                                       Transportation Data Corporation
                                                                                        Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
                                                                                         t (781) 587-0086 f (781) 587-0089
N/S: Pike Overpass/Perkins Street                                                                                                                                                                        File Name                     : 04051FF
E/W: Washington Street w/I-90 EB Access                                                                                                                                                                  Site Code                     : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                                                                  Start Date                    : 11/17/2010
Client: VHB/M. Kealey                                                                                                                                                                                    Page No                       :1



                              Mass Pike Overpass                                   Washington Street (Route 16)                              Perkins Street                           Washington Street (Route 16)
                                    From North                                              From East                                         From South                                       From West
    Start Time Right         Thru       Left I-90 EB App. Total                Right     Thru    Left    Peds     App. Total     Right   Thru      Left       Peds   App. Total    Right          Thru                Left   I-90 EB   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
     05:00 PM        415          4      57       66      542                     0         0      0        0             0         3       0        2       0              5          2         174                 0         218         394          941
     05:15 PM        380          5      64        59     508                     0         0      0        0             0         0       0        1       0              1          2         213                 0         234         449          958
     05:30 PM        425          1      76        48     550                     0         0      0        0             0         3       0        0       0              3          0         194                 0         213         407          960
     05:45 PM        381          3      85        51     520                     0         0      0        0             0         3       0        0       0              3          3         217                 0         192         412          935
  Total Volume     1601          13     282      224    2120                      0         0      0        0             0         9       0        3       0             12          7         798                 0         857        1662         3794
  % App. Total      75.5        0.6    13.3     10.6                              0         0      0        0                      75       0       25       0                       0.4          48                 0        51.6
           PHF      .942      .650     .829     .848     .964                  .000      .000   .000     .000         .000       .750    .000     .375    .000           .600      .583         .919              .000        .916         .925         .988
           Cars    1601          13     282      222    2118                      0         0      0        0            0          9       0        3       0             12          7         798                 0         857        1662         3792
        % Cars       100       100      100     99.1     99.9                     0         0      0        0            0        100       0      100       0            100       100          100                 0         100          100         99.9
         Trucks         0         0       0         2        2                    0         0      0        0            0          0       0        0       0              0          0           0                 0           0            0             2
      % Trucks          0         0       0       0.9      0.1                    0         0      0        0            0          0       0        0       0              0          0           0                 0           0            0           0.1


                                                                                                           Mass Pike Overpass
                                                                                                          Out      In     Total
                                                                                                              0   2118     2118
                                                                                                              0       2       2
                                                                                                              0   2120     2120


                                                                                                         1601    13             282    222
                                                                                                            0     0                0     2
                                                                                                         1601    13             282    224
                                                                                                        Right Thru             Left  I-90
                                                                                                                                      EB




                                                                                                        Peak Hour Data


                                                                                                                                                                                       Washington Street (Route 16)
                                      Washington Street (Route 16)


                                                                0



                                                                         0
                                                                         0
                                                                         0
                                                             3266

                                                             3266




                                                                                                                                                                     Right Thru
                                                            Total




                                                                     Left




                                                                                                                                                                                         1089

                                                                                                                                                                                         1089
                                                                                                                                                                                         Out
                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                         0



                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                       North
                                                                                    0
                                                                                 798

                                                                                 798
                                                                     I-90 Right Thru
                                                       0
                                                   1662

                                                   1662




                                                                                                   Peak Hour Begins at 05:00 PM
                                                    In




                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                               0




                                                                                                                                                                                                   In
                                                                              7
                                                                              0
                                                                              7




                                                                                                                                                                     Left Peds




                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                      0



                                                                                                   Cars
                                                                                                   Trucks
                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                             0
                                         1604

                                         1604
                                         Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                            Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                            1089

                                                                                                                                                                                                            1089
                                                                         0
                                                                       857

                                                                       857

                                                                      EB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                             0




                                                                                                         Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                                             3    0    9    0
                                                                                                             0    0    0    0
                                                                                                             3    0    9    0


                                                                                                            20           12        32
                                                                                                              0           0         0
                                                                                                            20           12        32
                                                                                                          Out          In       Total
                                                                                                                  Perkins Street
                                                                        Transportation Data Corporation
                                                                          Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
                                                                           t (781) 587-0086 f (781) 587-0089
N/S: I-90 On-Off Ramps (Exit 16)                                                                                                                                      File Name        : 04051G
E/W: Washington Street (Route 16)                                                                                                                                     Site Code        : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                               Start Date       : 11/17/2010
Client: VHB/M. Kealey                                                                                                                                                 Page No          :1

                                                                                          Groups Printed- Cars - Trucks
                              I-90 WB Off-Ramp to 16 EB/WB                Route 16 WB to I-90 EB/16 WB            I-90 EB Access & Route 16 EB           Washington Street (Route 16)
                                        From North                                  From East                              From South                             From West
               Start Time          WB          EB         Left               Right     16 WB      16/90 EB           Right        Thru         Left       Right         Thru          Left       Int. Total
               07:00 AM            131          33          0                    0         101            84             0           0           0            0             0           0              349
               07:15 AM            156          31          0                    0         129            92             0           0           0            0             0           0              408
               07:30 AM            189          45          0                    0         110          148              0           0           0            0             0           0              492
               07:45 AM            141          53          0                    0         112          155              0           0           0            0             0           0              461
                     Total         617        162           0                    0         452          479              0           0           0            0             0           0             1710

               08:00 AM             149            57              0              0         141          156            0           0            0               0          0           0             503
               08:15 AM             170            41              0              0         139          161            0           0            0               0          0           0             511
               08:30 AM             162            41              0              0         190          154            0           0            0               0          0           0             547
               08:45 AM             185            39              0              0         146          104            0           0            0               0          0           0             474
                    Total           666           178              0              0         616          575            0           0            0               0          0           0            2035

             Grand Total          1283            340              0              0        1068         1054            0           0            0               0          0           0            3745
              Apprch %             79.1          20.9              0              0         50.3         49.7           0           0            0               0          0           0
                 Total %           34.3            9.1             0              0         28.5         28.1           0           0            0               0          0           0
                    Cars          1281            340              0              0        1067         1054            0           0            0               0          0           0            3742
                 % Cars            99.8           100              0              0         99.9          100           0           0            0               0          0           0             99.9
                  Trucks              2              0             0              0            1            0           0           0            0               0          0           0                3
               % Trucks             0.2              0             0              0          0.1            0           0           0            0               0          0           0              0.1




                          I-90 WB Off-Ramp to 16 EB/WB                  Route 16 WB to I-90 EB/16 WB             I-90 EB Access & Route 16 EB              Washington Street (Route 16)
                                     From North                                   From East                                From South                               From West
       Start Time          WB         EB         Left App. Total       Right 16 WB 16/90 EB       App. Total    Right     Thru      Left App. Total      Right    Thru        Left App. Total    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
        08:00 AM           149        57           0        206           0       141       156         297        0           0      0              0       0          0          0         0        503
        08:15 AM           170         41          0        211           0       139       161         300        0           0      0              0       0          0          0         0        511
        08:30 AM           162         41          0        203           0       190       154         344        0           0      0              0       0          0          0         0        547
        08:45 AM           185         39          0        224           0       146       104         250        0           0      0              0       0          0          0         0        474
     Total Volume          666       178           0        844           0       616       575        1191        0           0      0              0       0          0          0         0       2035
     % App. Total         78.9      21.1           0                      0      51.7      48.3                    0           0      0                      0          0          0
              PHF         .900      .781        .000       .942        .000      .811      .893         .866    .000        .000   .000        .000       .000       .000       .000     .000         .930
              Cars         665       178           0        843           0       615       575        1190        0           0      0           0          0          0          0        0        2033
           % Cars         99.8       100           0       99.9           0      99.8       100         99.9       0           0      0           0          0          0          0        0         99.9
            Trucks            1         0          0           1          0          1        0             1      0           0      0           0          0          0          0        0             2
         % Trucks           0.2         0          0         0.1          0        0.2        0           0.1      0           0      0           0          0          0          0        0           0.1
                                                                        Transportation Data Corporation
                                                                          Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
                                                                           t (781) 587-0086 f (781) 587-0089
N/S: I-90 On-Off Ramps (Exit 16)                                                                                                                                         File Name        : 04051G
E/W: Washington Street (Route 16)                                                                                                                                        Site Code        : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                                  Start Date       : 11/17/2010
Client: VHB/M. Kealey                                                                                                                                                    Page No          :1

                                                                                             Groups Printed- Trucks
                              I-90 WB Off-Ramp to 16 EB/WB                Route 16 WB to I-90 EB/16 WB           I-90 EB Access & Route 16 EB               Washington Street (Route 16)
                                        From North                                  From East                             From South                                 From West
               Start Time          WB          EB         Left               Right     16 WB      16/90 EB          Right        Thru         Left           Right         Thru          Left       Int. Total
               07:00 AM              0           0          0                    0            0            0            0           0           0                0             0           0                 0
               07:15 AM              0           0          0                    0            0            0            0           0           0                0             0           0                 0
               07:30 AM              1           0          0                    0            0            0            0           0           0                0             0           0                 1
               07:45 AM              0           0          0                    0            0            0            0           0           0                0             0           0                 0
                     Total           1           0          0                    0            0            0            0           0           0                0             0           0                 1

               08:00 AM                0            0              0              0            0               0           0           0            0               0          0           0                 0
               08:15 AM                1            0              0              0            1               0           0           0            0               0          0           0                 2
               08:30 AM                0            0              0              0            0               0           0           0            0               0          0           0                 0
               08:45 AM                0            0              0              0            0               0           0           0            0               0          0           0                 0
                    Total              1            0              0              0            1               0           0           0            0               0          0           0                 2

             Grand Total              2             0              0              0            1               0           0           0            0               0          0           0                 3
              Apprch %              100             0              0              0          100               0           0           0            0               0          0           0
                 Total %           66.7             0              0              0         33.3               0           0           0            0               0          0           0




                          I-90 WB Off-Ramp to 16 EB/WB                  Route 16 WB to I-90 EB/16 WB                I-90 EB Access & Route 16 EB              Washington Street (Route 16)
                                     From North                                   From East                                   From South                               From West
       Start Time          WB         EB         Left App. Total       Right 16 WB 16/90 EB       App. Total       Right     Thru      Left App. Total      Right    Thru        Left App. Total    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
        07:30 AM              1         0          0           1          0         0         0            0          0           0      0              0       0          0          0         0            1
        07:45 AM              0         0          0           0          0         0         0            0          0           0      0              0       0          0          0         0            0
        08:00 AM              0         0          0           0          0         0         0            0          0           0      0              0       0          0          0         0            0
        08:15 AM              1         0          0           1          0         1         0            1          0           0      0              0       0          0          0         0            2
     Total Volume             2         0          0           2          0         1         0            1          0           0      0              0       0          0          0         0            3
     % App. Total          100          0          0                      0       100         0                       0           0      0                      0          0          0
              PHF         .500      .000        .000       .500        .000      .250      .000         .250       .000        .000   .000        .000       .000       .000       .000     .000         .375
                                                                                   Transportation Data Corporation
                                                                                     Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
                                                                                      t (781) 587-0086 f (781) 587-0089
N/S: I-90 On-Off Ramps (Exit 16)                                                                                                                                                         File Name           : 04051G
E/W: Washington Street (Route 16)                                                                                                                                                        Site Code           : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                                                  Start Date          : 11/17/2010
Client: VHB/M. Kealey                                                                                                                                                                    Page No             :1



                          I-90 WB Off-Ramp to 16 EB/WB                             Route 16 WB to I-90 EB/16 WB                I-90 EB Access & Route 16 EB           Washington Street (Route 16)
                                     From North                                              From East                                   From South                            From West
       Start Time          WB         EB         Left App. Total                  Right 16 WB 16/90 EB       App. Total       Right     Thru      Left App. Total   Right    Thru        Left App. Total             Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
        08:00 AM           149        57           0        206                      0       141        156           297        0         0        0           0      0                  0              0      0         503
        08:15 AM           170         41          0        211                      0       139        161           300        0         0        0           0      0                  0              0      0         511
        08:30 AM           162         41          0        203                      0       190        154           344        0         0        0           0      0                  0              0      0         547
        08:45 AM           185         39          0        224                      0       146        104           250        0         0        0           0      0                  0              0      0         474
     Total Volume          666       178           0        844                      0       616        575          1191        0         0        0           0      0                  0              0      0        2035
     % App. Total         78.9      21.1           0                                 0      51.7       48.3                      0         0        0                  0                  0              0
              PHF         .900      .781        .000       .942                   .000      .811       .893           .866    .000      .000     .000        .000   .000               .000           .000    .000        .930
              Cars         665       178           0        843                      0       615        575          1190        0         0        0           0      0                  0              0       0       2033
           % Cars         99.8       100           0       99.9                      0      99.8        100           99.9       0         0        0           0      0                  0              0       0        99.9
            Trucks            1         0          0           1                     0          1         0               1      0         0        0           0      0                  0              0       0            2
         % Trucks           0.2         0          0         0.1                     0        0.2         0             0.1      0         0        0           0      0                  0              0       0          0.1


                                                                                                      I-90 WB Off-Ramp to 16 EB/WB
                                                                                                         Out       In      Total
                                                                                                             0      843      843
                                                                                                             0        1        1
                                                                                                             0      844      844


                                                                                                               665     178     0
                                                                                                                 1       0     0
                                                                                                               666     178     0
                                                                                                              WB      EB   Left




                                                                                                     Peak Hour Data


                                                                                                                                                                       Route 16 WB to I-90 EB/16 WB
                                     Washington Street (Route 16)


                                                               2
                                                            1280

                                                            1282
                                                           Total




                                                                                                                                                                          Out
                                                                        0
                                                                        0
                                                                        0




                                                                                                                                                          Right
                                                                    Left




                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                     North                                             0
                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                      0
                                                      0
                                                      0




                                                                                                    Peak Hour Begins at 08:00 AM
                                                                              0
                                                                              0
                                                                              0
                                                                    Right Thru
                                                   In




                                                                                                                                                                                   1191

                                                                                                                                                                                   1190
                                                                                                                                                        WB
                                                                                                                                                        16 16/90




                                                                                                                                                                                    In
                                                                                                                                                        616

                                                                                                                                                        615
                                                                                                                                                          1




                                                                                                                                                                                        1




                                                                                                    Cars
                                                                                                    Trucks
                                                                        0
                                                                        0
                                                                        0
                                            2
                                        1280

                                        1282




                                                                                                                                                            EB

                                                                                                                                                             575

                                                                                                                                                             575
                                        Out




                                                                                                                                                                                             Total
                                                                                                                                                                                             1191

                                                                                                                                                                                             1190
                                                                                                                                                               0




                                                                                                                                                                                                 1




                                                                                                              Left Thru Right
                                                                                                                  0    0    0
                                                                                                                  0    0    0
                                                                                                                  0    0    0


                                                                                                           753        0      753
                                                                                                              0       0        0
                                                                                                           753        0      753
                                                                                                          Out      In     Total
                                                                                                       I-90 EB Access & Route 16 EB
                                                                        Transportation Data Corporation
                                                                          Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
                                                                           t (781) 587-0086 f (781) 587-0089
N/S: I-90 On-Off Ramps (Exit 16)                                                                                                                                       File Name        : 04051GG
E/W: Washington Street (Route 16)                                                                                                                                      Site Code        : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                                Start Date       : 11/17/2010
Client: VHB/M. Kealey                                                                                                                                                  Page No          :1

                                                                                          Groups Printed- Cars - Trucks
                              I-90 WB Off-Ramp to 16 EB/WB                Route 16 WB to I-90 EB/16 WB            I-90 EB Access & Route 16 EB            Washington Street (Route 16)
                                        From North                                  From East                              From South                              From West
               Start Time          WB          EB         Left               Right     16 WB      16/90 EB           Right        Thru         Left        Right         Thru          Left       Int. Total
               04:00 PM            152          46          0                    0         159            71             0           0           0             0             0           0              428
               04:15 PM            180          34          0                    0         165            69             0           0           0             0             0           0              448
               04:30 PM            185          28          0                    0         162            82             0           0           0             0             0           0              457
               04:45 PM            203          40          0                    0         175            61             0           0           0             0             0           0              479
                     Total         720        148           0                    0         661          283              0           0           0             0             0           0             1812

               05:00 PM             215            36              0              0         197            91            0           0            0               0          0           0             539
               05:15 PM             222            48              0              0         155            72            0           0            0               0          0           0             497
               05:30 PM             261            51              0              0         168            69            0           0            0               0          0           0             549
               05:45 PM             224            60              0              0         152            81            0           0            0               0          0           0             517
                    Total           922           195              0              0         672           313            0           0            0               0          0           0            2102

             Grand Total          1642            343              0              0        1333           596            0           0            0               0          0           0            3914
              Apprch %             82.7          17.3              0              0         69.1         30.9            0           0            0               0          0           0
                 Total %             42            8.8             0              0         34.1         15.2            0           0            0               0          0           0
                    Cars          1641            342              0              0        1332           592            0           0            0               0          0           0            3907
                 % Cars            99.9          99.7              0              0         99.9         99.3            0           0            0               0          0           0             99.8
                  Trucks              1              1             0              0            1             4           0           0            0               0          0           0                7
               % Trucks             0.1            0.3             0              0          0.1           0.7           0           0            0               0          0           0              0.2




                          I-90 WB Off-Ramp to 16 EB/WB                  Route 16 WB to I-90 EB/16 WB              I-90 EB Access & Route 16 EB              Washington Street (Route 16)
                                     From North                                   From East                                 From South                               From West
       Start Time          WB         EB         Left App. Total       Right 16 WB 16/90 EB       App. Total     Right     Thru      Left App. Total      Right    Thru        Left App. Total    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
        05:00 PM           215         36          0        251           0       197         91        288         0           0      0              0       0          0          0         0        539
        05:15 PM           222         48          0        270           0       155         72        227         0           0      0              0       0          0          0         0        497
        05:30 PM           261         51          0        312           0       168         69        237         0           0      0              0       0          0          0         0        549
        05:45 PM           224        60           0        284           0       152         81        233         0           0      0              0       0          0          0         0        517
     Total Volume          922       195           0       1117           0       672       313         985         0           0      0              0       0          0          0         0       2102
     % App. Total         82.5      17.5           0                      0      68.2      31.8                     0           0      0                      0          0          0
              PHF         .883      .813        .000       .895        .000      .853      .860         .855     .000        .000   .000        .000       .000       .000       .000     .000         .957
              Cars         922       195           0       1117           0       672       311          983        0           0      0           0          0          0          0        0        2100
           % Cars          100       100           0        100           0       100      99.4         99.8        0           0      0           0          0          0          0        0         99.9
            Trucks            0         0          0           0          0         0          2            2       0           0      0           0          0          0          0        0             2
         % Trucks             0         0          0           0          0         0        0.6          0.2       0           0      0           0          0          0          0        0           0.1
                                                                        Transportation Data Corporation
                                                                          Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
                                                                           t (781) 587-0086 f (781) 587-0089
N/S: I-90 On-Off Ramps (Exit 16)                                                                                                                                         File Name        : 04051GG
E/W: Washington Street (Route 16)                                                                                                                                        Site Code        : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                                  Start Date       : 11/17/2010
Client: VHB/M. Kealey                                                                                                                                                    Page No          :1

                                                                                             Groups Printed- Trucks
                              I-90 WB Off-Ramp to 16 EB/WB                Route 16 WB to I-90 EB/16 WB           I-90 EB Access & Route 16 EB               Washington Street (Route 16)
                                        From North                                  From East                             From South                                 From West
               Start Time          WB          EB         Left               Right     16 WB      16/90 EB          Right        Thru         Left           Right         Thru          Left       Int. Total
               04:00 PM              0           0          0                    0            0            1            0           0           0                0             0           0                 1
               04:15 PM              1           0          0                    0            0            0            0           0           0                0             0           0                 1
               04:30 PM              0           0          0                    0            1            1            0           0           0                0             0           0                 2
               04:45 PM              0           1          0                    0            0            0            0           0           0                0             0           0                 1
                     Total           1           1          0                    0            1            2            0           0           0                0             0           0                 5

               05:00 PM                0            0              0              0            0               0           0           0            0               0          0           0                 0
               05:15 PM                0            0              0              0            0               0           0           0            0               0          0           0                 0
               05:30 PM                0            0              0              0            0               2           0           0            0               0          0           0                 2
               05:45 PM                0            0              0              0            0               0           0           0            0               0          0           0                 0
                    Total              0            0              0              0            0               2           0           0            0               0          0           0                 2

             Grand Total              1             1              0              0            1            4              0           0            0               0          0           0                 7
              Apprch %               50            50              0              0           20           80              0           0            0               0          0           0
                 Total %           14.3          14.3              0              0         14.3         57.1              0           0            0               0          0           0




                          I-90 WB Off-Ramp to 16 EB/WB                  Route 16 WB to I-90 EB/16 WB                I-90 EB Access & Route 16 EB              Washington Street (Route 16)
                                     From North                                   From East                                   From South                               From West
       Start Time          WB         EB         Left App. Total       Right 16 WB 16/90 EB       App. Total       Right     Thru      Left App. Total      Right    Thru        Left App. Total    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:00 PM
        04:00 PM              0         0          0           0          0         0         1            1          0           0      0              0       0          0          0         0            1
        04:15 PM              1         0          0           1          0         0         0            0          0           0      0              0       0          0          0         0            1
        04:30 PM              0         0          0           0          0         1         1            2          0           0      0              0       0          0          0         0            2
        04:45 PM              0         1          0           1          0         0         0            0          0           0      0              0       0          0          0         0            1
     Total Volume             1         1          0           2          0         1         2            3          0           0      0              0       0          0          0         0            5
     % App. Total            50        50          0                      0      33.3      66.7                       0           0      0                      0          0          0
              PHF         .250      .250        .000       .500        .000      .250      .500         .375       .000        .000   .000        .000       .000       .000       .000     .000         .625
                                                                                   Transportation Data Corporation
                                                                                     Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
                                                                                      t (781) 587-0086 f (781) 587-0089
N/S: I-90 On-Off Ramps (Exit 16)                                                                                                                                                        File Name           : 04051GG
E/W: Washington Street (Route 16)                                                                                                                                                       Site Code           : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                                                 Start Date          : 11/17/2010
Client: VHB/M. Kealey                                                                                                                                                                   Page No             :1



                          I-90 WB Off-Ramp to 16 EB/WB                             Route 16 WB to I-90 EB/16 WB               I-90 EB Access & Route 16 EB           Washington Street (Route 16)
                                     From North                                              From East                                  From South                            From West
       Start Time          WB         EB         Left App. Total                  Right 16 WB 16/90 EB       App. Total      Right     Thru      Left App. Total   Right    Thru        Left App. Total             Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
        05:00 PM           215         36          0        251                      0       197         91          288        0         0        0           0      0                  0              0      0         539
        05:15 PM           222         48          0        270                      0       155         72          227        0         0        0           0      0                  0              0      0         497
        05:30 PM           261         51          0        312                      0       168         69          237        0         0        0           0      0                  0              0      0         549
        05:45 PM           224        60           0        284                      0       152         81          233        0         0        0           0      0                  0              0      0         517
     Total Volume          922       195           0       1117                      0       672       313           985        0         0        0           0      0                  0              0      0        2102
     % App. Total         82.5      17.5           0                                 0      68.2      31.8                      0         0        0                  0                  0              0
              PHF         .883      .813        .000       .895                   .000      .853      .860           .855    .000      .000     .000        .000   .000               .000           .000    .000        .957
              Cars         922       195           0       1117                      0       672       311            983       0         0        0           0      0                  0              0       0       2100
           % Cars          100       100           0        100                      0       100      99.4           99.8       0         0        0           0      0                  0              0       0        99.9
            Trucks            0         0          0           0                     0         0          2              2      0         0        0           0      0                  0              0       0            2
         % Trucks             0         0          0           0                     0         0        0.6            0.2      0         0        0           0      0                  0              0       0          0.1


                                                                                                      I-90 WB Off-Ramp to 16 EB/WB
                                                                                                         Out       In      Total
                                                                                                             0     1117     1117
                                                                                                             0        0        0
                                                                                                             0     1117     1117


                                                                                                               922     195     0
                                                                                                                 0       0     0
                                                                                                               922     195     0
                                                                                                              WB      EB   Left




                                                                                                     Peak Hour Data


                                                                                                                                                                      Route 16 WB to I-90 EB/16 WB
                                     Washington Street (Route 16)


                                                               0
                                                            1594

                                                            1594
                                                           Total




                                                                                                                                                                         Out
                                                                        0
                                                                        0
                                                                        0




                                                                                                                                                         Right
                                                                    Left




                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                     North                                            0
                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                      0
                                                      0
                                                      0




                                                                                                   Peak Hour Begins at 05:00 PM
                                                                              0
                                                                              0
                                                                              0
                                                                    Right Thru
                                                   In




                                                                                                                                                       WB
                                                                                                                                                       16 16/90




                                                                                                                                                                                   In
                                                                                                                                                       672

                                                                                                                                                       672


                                                                                                                                                                                   985

                                                                                                                                                                                   983
                                                                                                                                                         0




                                                                                                                                                                                       2




                                                                                                   Cars
                                                                                                   Trucks
                                                                        0
                                                                        0
                                                                        0
                                            0
                                        1594

                                        1594




                                                                                                                                                           EB

                                                                                                                                                            313

                                                                                                                                                            311
                                        Out




                                                                                                                                                                                            Total
                                                                                                                                                              2



                                                                                                                                                                                              985

                                                                                                                                                                                              983
                                                                                                                                                                                                2




                                                                                                              Left Thru Right
                                                                                                                  0    0    0
                                                                                                                  0    0    0
                                                                                                                  0    0    0


                                                                                                          506        0      506
                                                                                                             2       0        2
                                                                                                          508        0      508
                                                                                                         Out      In     Total
                                                                                                      I-90 EB Access & Route 16 EB
                                                                         Transportation Data Corporation
                                                                           Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
                                                                            t (781) 587-0086 f (781) 587-0089
N/S: Washington Street (Route 16)                                                                                                                                          File Name              : 04051H
E/W: Beacon Street/Extension                                                                                                                                               Site Code              : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                                    Start Date             : 11/18/2010
Client: VHB/M. Kealey                                                                                                                                                      Page No                :1

                                                                                              Groups Printed- Cars - Trucks
                                Washington Street (Route 16)                            Beacon Street                  Washington Street (Route 16)             Beacon Street Extension
                                         From North                                      From East                             From South                             From West
               Start Time        Right         Thru          Left               Right          Thru         Left         Right        Thru          Left        Right        Thru               Left        Int. Total
               07:00 AM              4          183           12                   30              2          58            69         482            5             0            4                2               851
               07:15 AM              0          251           21                   31              0          53            71         459            2             0            1                0               889
               07:30 AM              0          218           23                   39              5          83            68         452            0             0            0                4               892
               07:45 AM              1          261           19                   39              2          85            65         430            1             3            1                1               908
                     Total           5          913           75                 139               9        279           273         1823            8             3            6                7              3540

               08:00 AM                1         228               12             38               0           83             75             435         1            0             0              0             873
               08:15 AM                3         288               24             32               0           74             85             408         3            0             0              0             917
               08:30 AM                2         284               15             57               1           92             66             422         3            1             0              0             943
               08:45 AM                1         268               28             28               0           82             55             378         1            1             0              0             842
                    Total              7        1068               79            155               1          331            281            1643         8            2             0              0            3575

             Grand Total             12         1981            154              294              10          610          554              3466        16          5                6              7           7115
              Apprch %              0.6          92.3            7.2            32.2             1.1         66.7         13.7               85.9      0.4       27.8            33.3           38.9
                 Total %            0.2          27.8            2.2              4.1            0.1           8.6          7.8              48.7      0.2        0.1              0.1            0.1
                    Cars             11         1957            152              292              10          602          544              3433        16          4                6              7           7034
                 % Cars            91.7          98.8          98.7             99.3            100          98.7         98.2                 99     100          80             100            100             98.9
                  Trucks              1            24              2                2              0             8           10                33        0          1                0              0              81
               % Trucks             8.3           1.2            1.3              0.7              0           1.3          1.8                 1        0         20                0              0             1.1




                           Washington Street (Route 16)                            Beacon Street                       Washington Street (Route 16)                 Beacon Street Extension
                                      From North                                    From East                                  From South                                 From West
       Start Time        Right      Thru         Left App. Total        Right      Thru       Left     App. Total    Right    Thru        Left App. Total      Right     Thru       Left App. Total         Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
        07:45 AM              1       261          19       281            39          2          85         126        65           430          1    496        3          1              1           5        908
        08:00 AM              1       228          12       241            38          0          83         121        75           435          1    511        0          0              0           0        873
        08:15 AM              3       288         24        315            32          0          74         106        85           408          3    496        0          0              0           0        917
        08:30 AM              2       284          15       301            57          1          92         150        66           422          3    491        1          0              0           1        943
     Total Volume             7     1061           70      1138          166           3        334          503      291          1695           8   1994        4          1              1           6       3641
     % App. Total           0.6      93.2         6.2                      33        0.6       66.4                  14.6              85       0.4            66.7       16.7           16.7
              PHF         .583       .921       .729       .903         .728       .375        .908         .838     .856           .974      .667     .976    .333       .250           .250       .300         .965
              Cars            6     1047           68      1121          164           3        328          495      284          1676           8   1968        3          1              1          5        3589
           % Cars         85.7       98.7       97.1       98.5         98.8        100        98.2         98.4     97.6           98.9       100     98.7    75.0        100            100       83.3         98.6
            Trucks            1         14          2         17            2          0           6            8        7             19         0       26      1          0              0          1            52
         % Trucks         14.3         1.3        2.9        1.5          1.2          0         1.8          1.6      2.4            1.1         0      1.3   25.0          0              0       16.7           1.4
                                                                          Transportation Data Corporation
                                                                            Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
                                                                             t (781) 587-0086 f (781) 587-0089
N/S: Washington Street (Route 16)                                                                                                                                         File Name         : 04051H
E/W: Beacon Street/Extension                                                                                                                                              Site Code         : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                                   Start Date        : 11/18/2010
Client: VHB/M. Kealey                                                                                                                                                     Page No           :1

                                                                                                 Groups Printed- Trucks
                                Washington Street (Route 16)                           Beacon Street                 Washington Street (Route 16)              Beacon Street Extension
                                         From North                                     From East                             From South                             From West
               Start Time        Right         Thru          Left                Right        Thru          Left        Right       Thru          Left         Right        Thru           Left       Int. Total
               07:00 AM              0             0           0                     0            0            1            2           5           0              0            0            0                 8
               07:15 AM              0             4           0                     0            0            1            0           4           0              0            0            0                 9
               07:30 AM              0             2           0                     0            0            0            1           2           0              0            0            0                 5
               07:45 AM              0             2           1                     0            0            1            0           6           0              0            0            0               10
                     Total           0             8           1                     0            0            3            3          17           0              0            0            0               32

               08:00 AM                0            2               0                0            0                2           6            3            0           0          0            0               13
               08:15 AM                1            5               1                1            0                3           0            5            0           0          0            0               16
               08:30 AM                0            5               0                1            0                0           1            5            0           1          0            0               13
               08:45 AM                0            4               0                0            0                0           0            3            0           0          0            0                7
                    Total              1           16               1                2            0                5           7           16            0           1          0            0               49

             Grand Total              1            24                2               2            0             8             10            33           0          1           0            0               81
              Apprch %              3.7          88.9              7.4              20            0            80           23.3          76.7           0       100            0            0
                 Total %            1.2          29.6              2.5             2.5            0           9.9           12.3          40.7           0        1.2           0            0




                           Washington Street (Route 16)                             Beacon Street                        Washington Street (Route 16)              Beacon Street Extension
                                     From North                                      From East                                   From South                              From West
       Start Time        Right      Thru         Left App. Total         Right      Thru       Left   App. Total       Right    Thru        Left App. Total   Right     Thru       Left App. Total    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
        07:45 AM              0         2          1           3            0          0         1             1          0           6        0          6      0          0          0          0          10
        08:00 AM              0         2          0           2            0          0         2             2          6           3        0          9      0          0          0          0          13
        08:15 AM              1         5          1           7            1          0         3             4          0           5        0          5      0          0          0          0          16
        08:30 AM              0         5          0           5            1          0         0             1          1           5        0          6      1          0          0          1          13
     Total Volume             1        14          2         17             2          0         6             8          7          19        0         26      1          0          0          1          52
     % App. Total           5.9     82.4        11.8                       25          0        75                     26.9        73.1        0               100          0          0
              PHF         .250      .700        .500       .607          .500       .000      .500         .500        .292        .792     .000       .722   .250       .000       .000      .250         .813
                                                                                Transportation Data Corporation
                                                                                  Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
                                                                                   t (781) 587-0086 f (781) 587-0089
N/S: Washington Street (Route 16)                                                                                                                                                      File Name         : 04051H
E/W: Beacon Street/Extension                                                                                                                                                           Site Code         : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                                                Start Date        : 11/18/2010
Client: VHB/M. Kealey                                                                                                                                                                  Page No           :1



                           Washington Street (Route 16)                                Beacon Street                       Washington Street (Route 16)                  Beacon Street Extension
                                      From North                                        From East                                  From South                                  From West
       Start Time        Right      Thru         Left App. Total               Right   Thru       Left      App. Total   Right    Thru        Left App. Total       Right     Thru       Left App. Total         Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
        07:45 AM              1       261          19       281                   39       2         85           126       65      430          1       496           3               1             1      5         908
        08:00 AM              1       228          12       241                   38       0         83           121       75      435          1       511           0               0             0      0         873
        08:15 AM              3       288         24        315                   32       0         74           106       85      408          3       496           0               0             0      0         917
        08:30 AM              2       284          15       301                   57       1         92           150       66      422          3       491           1               0             0      1         943
     Total Volume             7     1061           70      1138                 166        3       334            503     291     1695           8      1994           4               1             1      6        3641
     % App. Total           0.6      93.2         6.2                             33     0.6      66.4                   14.6         85       0.4                  66.7            16.7          16.7
              PHF         .583       .921       .729       .903                .728    .375       .908           .838    .856      .974      .667        .976       .333            .250          .250    .300        .965
              Cars            6     1047           68      1121                 164        3       328            495     284     1676           8      1968           3               1             1       5       3589
           % Cars         85.7       98.7       97.1       98.5                98.8     100       98.2           98.4    97.6      98.9       100        98.7       75.0             100           100    83.3        98.6
            Trucks            1         14          2         17                   2       0          6              8       7        19         0          26         1               0             0       1           52
         % Trucks         14.3         1.3        2.9        1.5                 1.2       0        1.8            1.6     2.4       1.1         0         1.3      25.0               0             0    16.7          1.4


                                                                                                  Washington Street (Route 16)
                                                                                                   Out       In       Total
                                                                                                   1841      1121      2962
                                                                                                     21        17        38
                                                                                                   1862      1138      3000


                                                                                                              6 1047   68
                                                                                                              1    14    2
                                                                                                              7 1061   70
                                                                                                          Right Thru Left




                                                                                                Peak Hour Data
                                                             2
                                                            22

                                                            24
                                                         Total
                                     Beacon Street Extension




                                                                                                                                                                       Out
                                                                                                                                                                        362

                                                                                                                                                                        353
                                                                     1
                                                                     0
                                                                     1




                                                                                                                                                      Right Thru
                                                                 Left




                                                                                                                                                       166

                                                                                                                                                       164



                                                                                                                                                                           9
                                                                                                                 North
                                                                                                                                                                            Beacon Street
                                                                                                                                                          2
                                                    5
                                                    1
                                                    6




                                                                                               Peak Hour Begins at 07:45 AM
                                                                           1
                                                                           0
                                                                           1
                                                                 Right Thru
                                                In




                                                                                                                                                                                 In
                                                                                                                                                                                 503

                                                                                                                                                                                 495
                                                                                                                                                                3
                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                3



                                                                                                                                                                                    8




                                                                                               Cars
                                                                                               Trucks
                                                                     3
                                                                     1
                                                                     4




                                                                                                                                                      Left
                                          1
                                        17

                                        18




                                                                                                                                                       334

                                                                                                                                                       328
                                      Out




                                                                                                                                                                                          Total
                                                                                                                                                          6



                                                                                                                                                                                           865

                                                                                                                                                                                           848
                                                                                                                                                                                             17




                                                                                                          Left Thru Right
                                                                                                              8 1676  284
                                                                                                              0   19    7
                                                                                                              8 1695  291


                                                                                                   1378      1968      3346
                                                                                                     21        26        47
                                                                                                   1399      1994      3393
                                                                                                   Out       In       Total
                                                                                                  Washington Street (Route 16)
                                                                       Transportation Data Corporation
                                                                         Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
                                                                          t (781) 587-0086 f (781) 587-0089
N/S: Washington Street (Route 16)                                                                                                                                      File Name             : 04051HH
E/W: Beacon Street/Extension                                                                                                                                           Site Code             : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                                Start Date            : 11/18/2010
Client: VHB/M. Kealey                                                                                                                                                  Page No               :1
PM Peak Hour
Counts                                                                                      Groups Printed- Cars - Trucks
                                Washington Street (Route 16)                          Beacon Street                  Washington Street (Route 16)            Beacon Street Extension
                                         From North                                    From East                             From South                            From West
               Start Time        Right          Thru         Left             Right          Thru         Left         Right        Thru          Left       Right        Thru             Left         Int. Total
               07:00 AM              1           381          24                 22              1          98            88         254            2            8            1              1                881
               07:15 AM              1           427          26                 21              0          80            77         313            1            3            0              1                950
               07:30 AM              2           433          44                 26              1          73          103          309            0            4            0              2                997
               07:45 AM              0           359          30                 25              0          71          108          311            0            9            0              1                914
                     Total           4         1600          124                 94              2        322           376         1187            3           24            1              5               3742

               08:00 AM                0         383            46              16               1           73            93             351         0          4             0              2              969
               08:15 AM                1         380            46              27               0           78            95             349         2          4             0              4              986
               08:30 AM                0         324            33              17               0           68           126             350         0          2             0              0              920
               08:45 AM                0         352            33              30               0           65            98             378         0          4             1              1              962
                    Total              1        1439           158              90               1          284           412            1428         2         14             1              7             3837

             Grand Total               5        3039           282             184               3          606         788              2615         5          38             2             12            7579
              Apprch %               0.2         91.4           8.5           23.2             0.4         76.4        23.1               76.7      0.1       73.1            3.8          23.1
                 Total %             0.1         40.1           3.7             2.4              0            8        10.4               34.5      0.1         0.5             0            0.2
                    Cars               5        3030           282             183               3          606         788              2611         5          38             2             12            7565
                 % Cars             100          99.7          100            99.5            100           100         100               99.8     100         100           100            100              99.8
                  Trucks               0            9             0               1              0            0           0                  4        0           0             0              0               14
               % Trucks                0          0.3             0             0.5              0            0           0                0.2        0           0             0              0              0.2




                           Washington Street (Route 16)                          Beacon Street                      Washington Street (Route 16)                 Beacon Street Extension
                                      From North                                  From East                                 From South                                 From West
       Start Time        Right      Thru         Left App. Total      Right      Thru       Left     App. Total   Right    Thru        Left App. Total      Right     Thru       Left App. Total        Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
        07:30 AM              2       433          44       479         26           1         73          100      103           309          0    412        4         0             2            6        997
        07:45 AM              0       359          30       389         25           0         71           96      108           311          0    419        9         0             1           10        914
        08:00 AM              0       383         46        429         16           1         73           90       93           351          0    444        4         0             2            6        969
        08:15 AM              1       380          46       427         27           0         78          105       95           349          2    446        4         0             4            8        986
     Total Volume             3     1555         166       1724         94           2        295          391      399         1320           2   1721       21         0             9           30       3866
     % App. Total           0.2      90.2         9.6                   24         0.5       75.4                  23.2          76.7        0.1              70         0            30
              PHF         .375       .898       .902       .900       .870       .500        .946         .931     .924          .940      .250     .965    .583      .000          .563       .750          .969
              Cars            3     1551         166       1720         94           2        295          391      399         1316           2   1717       21         0             9         30         3858
           % Cars          100       99.7        100       99.8        100        100         100          100      100          99.7       100     99.8     100         0           100        100          99.8
            Trucks            0          4          0          4         0           0          0            0        0              4         0        4      0         0             0          0              8
         % Trucks             0        0.3          0        0.2         0           0          0            0        0            0.3         0      0.2      0         0             0          0            0.2
                                                                        Transportation Data Corporation
                                                                          Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
                                                                           t (781) 587-0086 f (781) 587-0089
N/S: Washington Street (Route 16)                                                                                                                                       File Name         : 04051HH
E/W: Beacon Street/Extension                                                                                                                                            Site Code         : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                                 Start Date        : 11/18/2010
Client: VHB/M. Kealey                                                                                                                                                   Page No           :1
PM Peak Hour
Counts
                                                                                               Groups Printed- Trucks
                                Washington Street (Route 16)                         Beacon Street                 Washington Street (Route 16)              Beacon Street Extension
                                         From North                                   From East                             From South                             From West
               Start Time        Right         Thru          Left              Right        Thru          Left        Right       Thru          Left         Right        Thru           Left       Int. Total
               07:00 AM              0             2           0                   1            0            0            0           0           0              0            0            0                 3
               07:15 AM              0             2           0                   0            0            0            0           0           0              0            0            0                 2
               07:30 AM              0             1           0                   0            0            0            0           1           0              0            0            0                 2
               07:45 AM              0             2           0                   0            0            0            0           0           0              0            0            0                 2
                     Total           0             7           0                   1            0            0            0           1           0              0            0            0                 9

               08:00 AM                0            0              0               0            0                0           0            3            0           0          0            0                 3
               08:15 AM                0            1              0               0            0                0           0            0            0           0          0            0                 1
               08:30 AM                0            1              0               0            0                0           0            0            0           0          0            0                 1
               08:45 AM                0            0              0               0            0                0           0            0            0           0          0            0                 0
                    Total              0            2              0               0            0                0           0            3            0           0          0            0                 5

             Grand Total               0            9              0               1            0                0           0             4           0           0          0            0               14
              Apprch %                 0          100              0            100             0                0           0           100           0           0          0            0
                 Total %               0         64.3              0             7.1            0                0           0          28.6           0           0          0            0




                           Washington Street (Route 16)                           Beacon Street                        Washington Street (Route 16)              Beacon Street Extension
                                     From North                                    From East                                   From South                              From West
       Start Time        Right      Thru         Left App. Total       Right      Thru       Left   App. Total       Right    Thru        Left App. Total   Right     Thru       Left App. Total    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:00 AM
        07:00 AM              0         2          0           2          1          0         0             1          0           0        0          0      0          0          0          0            3
        07:15 AM              0         2          0           2          0          0         0             0          0           0        0          0      0          0          0          0            2
        07:30 AM              0         1          0           1          0          0         0             0          0           1        0          1      0          0          0          0            2
        07:45 AM              0         2          0           2          0          0         0             0          0           0        0          0      0          0          0          0            2
     Total Volume             0         7          0           7          1          0         0             1          0           1        0          1      0          0          0          0            9
     % App. Total             0      100           0                    100          0         0                        0         100        0                 0          0          0
              PHF         .000      .875        .000       .875        .250       .000      .000         .250        .000        .250     .000       .250   .000       .000       .000      .000         .750
                                                                                Transportation Data Corporation
                                                                                  Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
                                                                                   t (781) 587-0086 f (781) 587-0089
N/S: Washington Street (Route 16)                                                                                                                                                     File Name         : 04051HH
E/W: Beacon Street/Extension                                                                                                                                                          Site Code         : 10865
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                                                                                                               Start Date        : 11/18/2010
Client: VHB/M. Kealey                                                                                                                                                                 Page No           :1



                           Washington Street (Route 16)                                Beacon Street                      Washington Street (Route 16)                  Beacon Street Extension
                                      From North                                        From East                                 From South                                  From West
       Start Time        Right      Thru         Left App. Total               Right   Thru       Left     App. Total   Right    Thru        Left App. Total       Right     Thru       Left App. Total         Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
        07:30 AM              2       433          44       479                  26        1        73           100     103       309          0       412           4               0             2      6         997
        07:45 AM              0       359          30       389                  25        0        71            96     108       311          0       419           9               0             1     10         914
        08:00 AM              0       383         46        429                  16        1        73            90      93       351          0       444           4               0             2      6         969
        08:15 AM              1       380          46       427                  27        0        78           105      95       349          2       446           4               0             4      8         986
     Total Volume             3     1555         166       1724                  94        2       295           391     399     1320           2      1721          21               0             9     30        3866
     % App. Total           0.2      90.2         9.6                            24      0.5      75.4                  23.2      76.7        0.1                    70               0            30
              PHF         .375       .898       .902       .900                .870    .500       .946          .931    .924      .940      .250        .965       .583            .000          .563    .750        .969
              Cars            3     1551         166       1720                  94        2       295           391     399     1316           2      1717          21               0             9      30       3858
           % Cars          100       99.7        100       99.8                 100     100        100           100     100      99.7       100        99.8        100               0           100     100        99.8
            Trucks            0          4          0          4                  0        0         0             0       0          4         0           4         0               0             0       0            8
         % Trucks             0        0.3          0        0.2                  0        0         0             0       0        0.3         0         0.2         0               0             0       0          0.2


                                                                                                  Washington Street (Route 16)
                                                                                                   Out       In       Total
                                                                                                   1419      1720      3139
                                                                                                       4        4         8
                                                                                                   1423      1724      3147


                                                                                                             3 1551  166
                                                                                                             0     4    0
                                                                                                             3 1555  166
                                                                                                         Right Thru Left
                                                                                                                                           PM Peak Hour
                                                                                                                                           Counts

                                                                                                Peak Hour Data
                                                             0
                                                            37

                                                            37
                                                         Total
                                     Beacon Street Extension




                                                                                                                                                                      Out
                                                                                                                                                                       565

                                                                                                                                                                       565
                                                                     9
                                                                     0
                                                                     9




                                                                                                                                                     Right Thru
                                                                 Left




                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                North
                                                                                                                                                                           Beacon Street
                                                                                                                                                        94

                                                                                                                                                        94
                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                    0
                                                  30

                                                  30




                                                                                               Peak Hour Begins at 07:30 AM
                                                                           0
                                                                           0
                                                                           0
                                                                 Right Thru
                                                In




                                                                                                                                                                                In
                                                                                                                                                                                391

                                                                                                                                                                                391
                                                                                                                                                               2
                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                               2



                                                                                                                                                                                   0




                                                                                               Cars
                                                                                               Trucks
                                                                     0
                                                                    21

                                                                    21




                                                                                                                                                     Left
                                          7
                                          0
                                          7




                                                                                                                                                      295

                                                                                                                                                      295
                                      Out




                                                                                                                                                                                         Total
                                                                                                                                                         0



                                                                                                                                                                                          956

                                                                                                                                                                                          956
                                                                                                                                                                                             0




                                                                                                         Left Thru Right
                                                                                                             2 1316  399
                                                                                                             0    4    0
                                                                                                             2 1320  399


                                                                                                   1867      1717      3584
                                                                                                       4        4         8
                                                                                                   1871      1721      3592
                                                                                                   Out       In       Total
                                                                                                  Washington Street (Route 16)
                                                                          Transportation Data Corporation
                                                                            Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
                                                                             t (781) 587-0086 f (781) 587-0089
N/S: I-95 NB On-Off Ramps                                                                                                                                              File Name            : 04051J
E/W: Comm. Ave./South Ave. (Route 30)                                                                                                                                  Site Code            : 10865
City, State: Weston, MA                                                                                                                                                Start Date           : 11/17/2010
Client: VHB/M. Kealey                                                                                                                                                  Page No              :1

                                                                                          Groups Printed- Cars - Trucks
                                     I-95 NB On Ramp                       Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)             I-95 NB On-Off Ramps                   South Avenue (Route 30)
                                         From North                                 From East                               From South                              From West
               Start Time         Right       Thru                 Left       Right       Thru          Left         Right        Thru             Left      Right        Thru             Left        Int. Total
               07:00 AM               0           0                  0           82        127             0            90           0              98          31         205               0               633
               07:15 AM               0           0                  0           89        183             0            88           0             112          34         196               0               702
               07:30 AM               0           0                  0           98        253             0          101            0             124          36         226               0               838
               07:45 AM               0           0                  0         101         257             0            68           0             140          49         202               0               817
                     Total            0           0                  0         370         820             0          347            0             474        150          829               0              2990

               08:00 AM                0            0                0            115         230               0            71           0        146          51            193            0              806
               08:15 AM                0            0                0            106         234               0            77           0        169          52            166            0              804
               08:30 AM                0            0                0             91         250               0            66           0        147          47            178            0              779
               08:45 AM                0            0                0             88         240               0            64           0        143          66            163            0              764
                    Total              0            0                0            400         954               0           278           0        605         216            700            0             3153

             Grand Total               0            0                0             770       1774               0         625             0       1079         366        1529               0             6143
              Apprch %                 0            0                0            30.3        69.7              0        36.7             0        63.3       19.3         80.7              0
                 Total %               0            0                0            12.5        28.9              0        10.2             0        17.6           6        24.9              0
                    Cars               0            0                0             764       1757               0         621             0       1064         362        1510               0             6078
                 % Cars                0            0                0            99.2          99              0        99.4             0        98.6       98.9         98.8              0              98.9
                  Trucks               0            0                0                6         17              0            4            0          15           4          19              0                65
               % Trucks                0            0                0              0.8          1              0          0.6            0         1.4         1.1         1.2              0               1.1




                                  I-95 NB On Ramp                        Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                   I-95 NB On-Off Ramps                  South Avenue (Route 30)
                                      From North                                  From East                                     From South                             From West
       Start Time        Right       Thru        Left App. Total         Right   Thru      Left App. Total          Right      Thru      Left App. Total    Right     Thru     Left App. Total         Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
        07:30 AM              0         0          0           0             98       253       0       351          101             0    124       225        36      226             0         262        838
        07:45 AM              0         0          0           0           101        257       0       358            68            0    140       208        49      202             0         251        817
        08:00 AM              0         0          0           0           115        230       0       345            71            0    146       217        51      193             0         244        806
        08:15 AM              0         0          0           0           106        234       0       340            77            0    169       246        52      166             0         218        804
     Total Volume             0         0          0           0           420        974       0      1394          317             0    579       896      188       787             0         975       3265
     % App. Total             0         0          0                      30.1       69.9       0                   35.4             0   64.6               19.3      80.7             0
              PHF         .000       .000       .000       .000           .913       .947    .000       .973        .785          .000   .857       .911    .904      .871          .000      .930          .974
              Cars            0         0          0           0           416        964       0      1380          313             0    569        882     187       778             0       965         3227
           % Cars             0         0          0           0          99.0       99.0       0       99.0        98.7             0   98.3       98.4    99.5      98.9             0      99.0          98.8
            Trucks            0         0          0           0              4         10      0          14           4            0      10         14       1         9            0         10            38
         % Trucks             0         0          0           0            1.0        1.0      0         1.0         1.3            0     1.7        1.6     0.5       1.1            0        1.0           1.2
                                                                          Transportation Data Corporation
                                                                            Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
                                                                             t (781) 587-0086 f (781) 587-0089
N/S: I-95 NB On-Off Ramps                                                                                                                                            File Name            : 04051J
E/W: Comm. Ave./South Ave. (Route 30)                                                                                                                                Site Code            : 10865
City, State: Weston, MA                                                                                                                                              Start Date           : 11/17/2010
Client: VHB/M. Kealey                                                                                                                                                Page No              :1

                                                                                             Groups Printed- Trucks
                                     I-95 NB On Ramp                       Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)            I-95 NB On-Off Ramps                 South Avenue (Route 30)
                                         From North                                 From East                              From South                            From West
               Start Time         Right       Thru                 Left       Right       Thru          Left        Right        Thru            Left     Right        Thru              Left        Int. Total
               07:00 AM               0           0                  0            0          2             0            0           0              0          0           2                0                  4
               07:15 AM               0           0                  0            0          2             0            0           0              1          0           2                0                  5
               07:30 AM               0           0                  0            0          3             0            0           0              4          0           4                0                11
               07:45 AM               0           0                  0            4          2             0            2           0              1          0           2                0                11
                     Total            0           0                  0            4          9             0            2           0              6          0          10                0                31

               08:00 AM                0            0                0             0           3              0           2            0            2           1             2            0                10
               08:15 AM                0            0                0             0           2              0           0            0            3           0             1            0                 6
               08:30 AM                0            0                0             1           1              0           0            0            0           2             2            0                 6
               08:45 AM                0            0                0             1           2              0           0            0            4           1             4            0                12
                    Total              0            0                0             2           8              0           2            0            9           4             9            0                34

             Grand Total               0            0                0              6         17              0           4            0          15          4              19            0                65
              Apprch %                 0            0                0           26.1       73.9              0        21.1            0        78.9       17.4            82.6            0
                 Total %               0            0                0            9.2       26.2              0         6.2            0        23.1        6.2            29.2            0




                                  I-95 NB On Ramp                        Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                 I-95 NB On-Off Ramps                 South Avenue (Route 30)
                                      From North                                  From East                                   From South                            From West
       Start Time        Right       Thru        Left App. Total         Right   Thru      Left App. Total        Right      Thru      Left App. Total   Right     Thru     Left App. Total          Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
        07:30 AM              0         0          0           0             0        3       0          3           0           0       4           4      0          4             0           4          11
        07:45 AM              0         0          0           0             4        2       0          6           2           0       1           3      0          2             0           2          11
        08:00 AM              0         0          0           0             0        3       0          3           2           0       2           4      1          2             0           3          10
        08:15 AM              0         0          0           0             0        2       0          2           0           0       3           3      0          1             0           1           6
     Total Volume             0         0          0           0             4       10       0         14           4           0      10          14      1          9             0          10          38
     % App. Total             0         0          0                      28.6     71.4       0                   28.6           0    71.4                 10         90             0
              PHF         .000       .000       .000       .000           .250     .833    .000        .583       .500        .000    .625        .875   .250       .563          .000      .625          .864
                                                                               Transportation Data Corporation
                                                                                 Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
                                                                                  t (781) 587-0086 f (781) 587-0089
N/S: I-95 NB On-Off Ramps                                                                                                                                                                File Name           : 04051J
E/W: Comm. Ave./South Ave. (Route 30)                                                                                                                                                    Site Code           : 10865
City, State: Weston, MA                                                                                                                                                                  Start Date          : 11/17/2010
Client: VHB/M. Kealey                                                                                                                                                                    Page No             :1



                                  I-95 NB On Ramp                             Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                  I-95 NB On-Off Ramps                    South Avenue (Route 30)
                                      From North                                       From East                                    From South                               From West
       Start Time        Right       Thru        Left App. Total              Right   Thru      Left App. Total         Right      Thru      Left App. Total      Right     Thru     Left App. Total                  Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
        07:30 AM              0         0          0           0                  98     253          0         351       101        0       124        225          36                226               0    262          838
        07:45 AM              0         0          0           0                101      257          0         358         68       0       140        208          49                202               0    251          817
        08:00 AM              0         0          0           0                115      230          0         345         71       0       146        217          51                193               0    244          806
        08:15 AM              0         0          0           0                106      234          0         340         77       0       169        246          52                166               0    218          804
     Total Volume             0         0          0           0                420      974          0        1394       317        0       579        896        188                 787               0    975         3265
     % App. Total             0         0          0                           30.1     69.9          0                  35.4        0      64.6                  19.3                80.7               0
              PHF         .000       .000       .000       .000                .913     .947       .000         .973     .785     .000      .857        .911      .904                .871            .000    .930         .974
              Cars            0         0          0           0                416      964          0        1380       313        0       569         882       187                 778               0     965        3227
           % Cars             0         0          0           0               99.0     99.0          0         99.0     98.7        0      98.3        98.4      99.5                98.9               0    99.0         98.8
            Trucks            0         0          0           0                   4       10         0            14        4       0         10          14         1                   9              0       10           38
         % Trucks             0         0          0           0                 1.0      1.0         0           1.0      1.3       0        1.7         1.6       0.5                 1.1              0      1.0          1.2


                                                                                                        I-95 NB On Ramp
                                                                                                     Out       In     Total
                                                                                                      416         0     416
                                                                                                         4        0       4
                                                                                                      420         0     420


                                                                                                              0     0       0
                                                                                                              0     0       0
                                                                                                              0     0       0
                                                                                                          Right Thru    Left




                                                                                                 Peak Hour Data


                                                                                                                                                                     Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)
                                                           30
                                                         2498

                                                         2528
                                                        Total
                                     South Avenue (Route 30)




                                                                                                                                                                         1104

                                                                                                                                                                         1091
                                                                                                                                                                         Out
                                                                    0
                                                                    0
                                                                    0




                                                                                                                                                     Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                                           13
                                                                Left




                                                                                                                                                      420

                                                                                                                                                      416




                                                                                                                North
                                                                                                                                                         4
                                                  10
                                                 965

                                                 975




                                                                                                Peak Hour Begins at 07:30 AM
                                                                          9
                                                                       778

                                                                       787
                                                                Right Thru
                                                In




                                                                                                                                                                                 1394

                                                                                                                                                                                 1380
                                                                                                                                                                                  In
                                                                                                                                                            974

                                                                                                                                                            964
                                                                                                                                                             10




                                                                                                                                                                                    14




                                                                                                Cars
                                                                                                Trucks
                                                                    1
                                                                 187

                                                                 188




                                                                                                                                                     Left
                                         20
                                       1533

                                       1553
                                       Out




                                                                                                                                                                                          Total
                                                                                                                                                                                          2498

                                                                                                                                                                                          2471
                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                         0



                                                                                                                                                                                             27




                                                                                                          Left Thru Right
                                                                                                           569     0  313
                                                                                                            10     0    4
                                                                                                           579     0  317


                                                                                                      187       882     1069
                                                                                                         1       14       15
                                                                                                      188       896     1084
                                                                                                     Out       In      Total
                                                                                                      I-95 NB On-Off Ramps
                                                                          Transportation Data Corporation
                                                                            Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
                                                                             t (781) 587-0086 f (781) 587-0089
N/S: I-95 NB On-Off Ramps                                                                                                                                              File Name            : 04051JJ
E/W: Comm. Ave./South Ave. (Route 30)                                                                                                                                  Site Code            : 10865
City, State: Weston, MA                                                                                                                                                Start Date           : 11/17/2010
Client: VHB/M. Kealey                                                                                                                                                  Page No              :1

                                                                                          Groups Printed- Cars - Trucks
                                     I-95 NB On Ramp                       Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)             I-95 NB On-Off Ramps                   South Avenue (Route 30)
                                         From North                                 From East                               From South                              From West
               Start Time         Right       Thru                 Left       Right       Thru          Left         Right        Thru             Left      Right        Thru             Left       Int. Total
               04:00 PM               0           0                  0           80        206             0            97           0              82          63         168               0              696
               04:15 PM               0           0                  0           74        199             0            99           0              82          71         183               0              708
               04:30 PM               0           0                  0           81        211             0            99           0              77          58         192               0              718
               04:45 PM               0           0                  0           92        204             0          137            0              96          67         198               0              794
                     Total            0           0                  0         327         820             0          432            0             337        259          741               0             2916

               05:00 PM                0            0                0           105         245                0           149           0         83          92            198            0             872
               05:15 PM                0            0                0           100         217                0           169           0         84          97            221            0             888
               05:30 PM                0            0                0            73         167                0           181           0        104          79            200            0             804
               05:45 PM                0            0                0            87         180                0           184           0        112          52            228            0             843
                    Total              0            0                0           365         809                0           683           0        383         320            847            0            3407

             Grand Total               0            0                0            692       1629                0       1115              0        720         579        1588               0            6323
              Apprch %                 0            0                0           29.8        70.2               0        60.8             0       39.2        26.7         73.3              0
                 Total %               0            0                0           10.9        25.8               0        17.6             0       11.4          9.2        25.1              0
                    Cars               0            0                0            686       1616                0       1108              0        714         572        1581               0            6277
                 % Cars                0            0                0           99.1        99.2               0        99.4             0       99.2        98.8         99.6              0             99.3
                  Trucks               0            0                0               6         13               0           7             0           6           7           7              0               46
               % Trucks                0            0                0             0.9        0.8               0         0.6             0         0.8         1.2         0.4              0              0.7




                                  I-95 NB On Ramp                        Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                   I-95 NB On-Off Ramps                  South Avenue (Route 30)
                                      From North                                  From East                                     From South                             From West
       Start Time        Right       Thru        Left App. Total         Right   Thru      Left App. Total          Right      Thru      Left App. Total    Right     Thru     Left App. Total        Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
        05:00 PM              0         0          0           0           105       245       0        350          149             0      83      232        92      198             0      290          872
        05:15 PM              0         0          0           0           100       217       0        317          169             0      84      253        97      221             0      318          888
        05:30 PM              0         0          0           0            73       167       0        240          181             0    104       285        79      200             0      279          804
        05:45 PM              0         0          0           0            87       180       0        267          184             0    112       296        52      228             0      280          843
     Total Volume             0         0          0           0           365       809       0       1174          683             0    383      1066      320       847             0     1167         3407
     % App. Total             0         0          0                      31.1      68.9       0                    64.1             0   35.9               27.4      72.6             0
              PHF         .000       .000       .000       .000           .869      .826    .000        .839        .928          .000   .855       .900    .825      .929          .000      .917         .959
              Cars            0         0          0           0           365       804       0       1169          681             0    380      1061      316       843             0     1159         3389
           % Cars             0         0          0           0           100      99.4       0        99.6        99.7             0   99.2       99.5    98.8      99.5             0      99.3         99.5
            Trucks            0         0          0           0             0          5      0            5           2            0       3          5       4         4            0          8           18
         % Trucks             0         0          0           0             0        0.6      0          0.4         0.3            0     0.8        0.5     1.3       0.5            0        0.7          0.5
                                                                          Transportation Data Corporation
                                                                            Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
                                                                             t (781) 587-0086 f (781) 587-0089
N/S: I-95 NB On-Off Ramps                                                                                                                                            File Name            : 04051JJ
E/W: Comm. Ave./South Ave. (Route 30)                                                                                                                                Site Code            : 10865
City, State: Weston, MA                                                                                                                                              Start Date           : 11/17/2010
Client: VHB/M. Kealey                                                                                                                                                Page No              :1

                                                                                             Groups Printed- Trucks
                                     I-95 NB On Ramp                       Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)            I-95 NB On-Off Ramps                 South Avenue (Route 30)
                                         From North                                 From East                              From South                            From West
               Start Time         Right       Thru                 Left       Right       Thru          Left        Right        Thru            Left     Right        Thru              Left       Int. Total
               04:00 PM               0           0                  0            1          4             0            2           0              2          2           1                0               12
               04:15 PM               0           0                  0            2          1             0            2           0              1          1           1                0                 8
               04:30 PM               0           0                  0            0          2             0            1           0              0          0           1                0                 4
               04:45 PM               0           0                  0            3          1             0            0           0              0          0           0                0                 4
                     Total            0           0                  0            6          8             0            5           0              3          3           3                0               28

               05:00 PM                0            0                0             0           4              0           1            0            1           2            1             0                9
               05:15 PM                0            0                0             0           0              0           0            0            0           2            1             0                3
               05:30 PM                0            0                0             0           0              0           0            0            0           0            0             0                0
               05:45 PM                0            0                0             0           1              0           1            0            2           0            2             0                6
                    Total              0            0                0             0           5              0           2            0            3           4            4             0               18

             Grand Total               0            0                0              6         13              0           7            0           6          7               7            0               46
              Apprch %                 0            0                0           31.6       68.4              0        53.8            0        46.2         50              50            0
                 Total %               0            0                0             13       28.3              0        15.2            0          13       15.2            15.2            0




                                  I-95 NB On Ramp                        Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                 I-95 NB On-Off Ramps                 South Avenue (Route 30)
                                      From North                                  From East                                   From South                            From West
       Start Time        Right       Thru        Left App. Total         Right   Thru      Left App. Total        Right      Thru      Left App. Total   Right     Thru     Left App. Total         Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:00 PM
        04:00 PM              0         0          0           0             1        4       0          5           2           0       2           4      2          1             0          3          12
        04:15 PM              0         0          0           0             2        1       0          3           2           0       1           3      1          1             0          2           8
        04:30 PM              0         0          0           0             0        2       0          2           1           0       0           1      0          1             0          1           4
        04:45 PM              0         0          0           0             3        1       0          4           0           0       0           0      0          0             0          0           4
     Total Volume             0         0          0           0             6        8       0         14           5           0       3           8      3          3             0          6          28
     % App. Total             0         0          0                      42.9     57.1       0                   62.5           0    37.5                 50         50             0
              PHF         .000       .000       .000       .000           .500     .500    .000        .700       .625        .000    .375        .500   .375       .750          .000      .500         .583
                                                                               Transportation Data Corporation
                                                                                 Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
                                                                                  t (781) 587-0086 f (781) 587-0089
N/S: I-95 NB On-Off Ramps                                                                                                                                                                 File Name           : 04051JJ
E/W: Comm. Ave./South Ave. (Route 30)                                                                                                                                                     Site Code           : 10865
City, State: Weston, MA                                                                                                                                                                   Start Date          : 11/17/2010
Client: VHB/M. Kealey                                                                                                                                                                     Page No             :1



                                  I-95 NB On Ramp                             Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                  I-95 NB On-Off Ramps                     South Avenue (Route 30)
                                      From North                                       From East                                    From South                                From West
       Start Time        Right       Thru        Left App. Total              Right   Thru      Left App. Total         Right      Thru      Left App. Total       Right     Thru     Left App. Total                  Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
        05:00 PM              0         0          0           0                105      245          0         350       149        0         83       232           92                198               0    290          872
        05:15 PM              0         0          0           0                100      217          0         317       169        0         84       253           97                221               0    318          888
        05:30 PM              0         0          0           0                 73      167          0         240       181        0       104        285           79                200               0    279          804
        05:45 PM              0         0          0           0                 87      180          0         267       184        0       112        296           52                228               0    280          843
     Total Volume             0         0          0           0                365      809          0        1174       683        0       383       1066         320                 847               0   1167         3407
     % App. Total             0         0          0                           31.1     68.9          0                  64.1        0      35.9                   27.4                72.6               0
              PHF         .000       .000       .000       .000                .869     .826       .000         .839     .928     .000      .855        .900       .825                .929            .000    .917         .959
              Cars            0         0          0           0                365      804          0        1169       681        0       380       1061         316                 843               0   1159         3389
           % Cars             0         0          0           0                100     99.4          0         99.6     99.7        0      99.2        99.5       98.8                99.5               0    99.3         99.5
            Trucks            0         0          0           0                  0         5         0             5        2       0          3           5          4                   4              0        8           18
         % Trucks             0         0          0           0                  0       0.6         0           0.4      0.3       0        0.8         0.5        1.3                 0.5              0      0.7          0.5


                                                                                                        I-95 NB On Ramp
                                                                                                     Out       In     Total
                                                                                                      365         0     365
                                                                                                         0        0       0
                                                                                                      365         0     365


                                                                                                              0     0       0
                                                                                                              0     0       0
                                                                                                              0     0       0
                                                                                                          Right Thru    Left




                                                                                                 Peak Hour Data


                                                                                                                                                                      Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)
                                                           16
                                                         2343

                                                         2359
                                                        Total
                                     South Avenue (Route 30)




                                                                                                                                                                          1530

                                                                                                                                                                          1524
                                                                                                                                                                          Out
                                                                    0
                                                                    0
                                                                    0




                                                                                                                                                     Right Thru
                                                                Left




                                                                                                                                                      365

                                                                                                                                                      365



                                                                                                                                                                              6
                                                                                                                North
                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                   8
                                               1159

                                               1167




                                                                                                Peak Hour Begins at 05:00 PM
                                                                          4
                                                                       843

                                                                       847
                                                                Right Thru
                                                In




                                                                                                                                                                                  1174

                                                                                                                                                                                  1169
                                                                                                                                                                                   In
                                                                                                                                                            809

                                                                                                                                                            804
                                                                                                                                                               5




                                                                                                                                                                                      5




                                                                                                Cars
                                                                                                Trucks
                                                                    4
                                                                 316

                                                                 320




                                                                                                                                                     Left
                                           8
                                       1184

                                       1192
                                       Out




                                                                                                                                                                                           Total
                                                                                                                                                                                           2704

                                                                                                                                                                                           2693
                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                         0



                                                                                                                                                                                              11




                                                                                                          Left Thru Right
                                                                                                           380     0  681
                                                                                                              3    0    2
                                                                                                           383     0  683


                                                                                                      316     1061      1377
                                                                                                         4        5        9
                                                                                                      320     1066      1386
                                                                                                     Out       In      Total
                                                                                                      I-95 NB On-Off Ramps
                                                                           Transportation Data Corporation
                                                                             Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
                                                                              t (781) 587-0086 f (781) 587-0089
N/S: River Road/I-95 SB Ramps                                                                                                                                          File Name              : 04051K
E/W: South Avenue (Route 30)                                                                                                                                           Site Code              : 10865
City, State: Weston, MA                                                                                                                                                Start Date             : 11/17/2010
Client: VHB/M. Kealey                                                                                                                                                  Page No                :1

                                                                                              Groups Printed- Cars - Trucks
                                   River Road/Pike Access                         South Avenue (Route 30)                 I-95 SB On-Off Ramps               South Avenue (Route 30)
                                         From North                                      From East                              From South                          From West
               Start Time         Right        Thru                Left           Right        Thru         Left         Right        Thru         Left      Right        Thru              Left        Int. Total
               07:00 AM              18          10                 20             122           67           39            92          22          32          20         126               32               600
               07:15 AM              14          44                 14             158           84           60            88          16          29          35         124               36               702
               07:30 AM              36          37                 21             187          111           77          100           29          46          27         136               51               858
               07:45 AM              35          35                 22             228           90           79            80          29          29          23         149               86               885
                     Total         103          126                 77             695          352         255           360           96         136        105          535              205              3045

               08:00 AM              43            49           35                 232           82          65              71           40        41          23            134            97              912
               08:15 AM              23            37           26                 259           87          62              47           50        39          24            140           118              912
               08:30 AM              26            36           25                 223          101          76              58           36        26          31            137           111              886
               08:45 AM              24            29           23                 222           97          69              52           38        30          25            159           120              888
                    Total           116           151          109                 936          367         272             228          164       136         103            570           446             3598

             Grand Total            219           277           186               1631          719          527          588             260       272        208        1105               651            6643
              Apprch %             32.1          40.6          27.3                56.7           25        18.3         52.5            23.2      24.3       10.6         56.3             33.1
                 Total %             3.3           4.2           2.8               24.6        10.8           7.9          8.9             3.9       4.1        3.1        16.6               9.8
                    Cars            216           274           183               1617          708          521          573             259       266        204        1097               648            6566
                 % Cars            98.6          98.9          98.4                99.1        98.5         98.9         97.4            99.6      97.8       98.1         99.3             99.5             98.8
                  Trucks               3             3             3                 14           11            6           15               1         6          4           8                 3              77
               % Trucks              1.4           1.1           1.6                0.9          1.5          1.1          2.6             0.4       2.2        1.9         0.7               0.5             1.2




                                River Road/Pike Access                        South Avenue (Route 30)                     I-95 SB On-Off Ramps                  South Avenue (Route 30)
                                       From North                                    From East                                  From South                             From West
       Start Time        Right       Thru        Left App. Total          Right     Thru     Left App. Total        Right      Thru      Left App. Total    Right     Thru     Left App. Total          Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
        08:00 AM             43          49       35        127            232          82        65       379         71           40        41     152       23      134             97       254          912
        08:15 AM             23          37        26         86           259          87        62       408         47           50        39     136       24      140           118        282          912
        08:30 AM             26          36        25         87           223        101         76       400         58           36        26     120       31      137           111        279          886
        08:45 AM             24          29        23         76           222          97        69       388         52           38        30     120       25      159           120        304          888
     Total Volume          116         151       109        376            936        367       272       1575       228           164      136      528     103       570           446       1119         3598
     % App. Total         30.9        40.2         29                     59.4       23.3      17.3                 43.2          31.1     25.8               9.2     50.9          39.9
              PHF         .674        .770      .779       .740           .903       .908      .895        .965     .803          .820     .829     .868    .831      .896          .929        .920         .986
              Cars         114         150       106        370            929        362       268       1559       222           164      131      517     100       563           443       1106         3552
           % Cars         98.3        99.3      97.2       98.4           99.3       98.6      98.5        99.0     97.4           100     96.3     97.9    97.1      98.8          99.3        98.8         98.7
            Trucks            2           1         3          6              7          5         4          16        6            0         5       11       3         7             3          13           46
         % Trucks           1.7         0.7       2.8        1.6            0.7        1.4       1.5         1.0      2.6            0       3.7      2.1     2.9       1.2           0.7         1.2          1.3
                                                                           Transportation Data Corporation
                                                                             Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
                                                                              t (781) 587-0086 f (781) 587-0089
N/S: River Road/I-95 SB Ramps                                                                                                                                          File Name            : 04051K
E/W: South Avenue (Route 30)                                                                                                                                           Site Code            : 10865
City, State: Weston, MA                                                                                                                                                Start Date           : 11/17/2010
Client: VHB/M. Kealey                                                                                                                                                  Page No              :1

                                                                                                Groups Printed- Trucks
                                   River Road/Pike Access                        South Avenue (Route 30)                I-95 SB On-Off Ramps                South Avenue (Route 30)
                                         From North                                     From East                             From South                           From West
               Start Time         Right        Thru                Left          Right        Thru         Left        Right        Thru           Left     Right        Thru              Left        Int. Total
               07:00 AM               0            0                 0               1           1            0            2           0             0          0           0                0                  4
               07:15 AM               0            1                 0               2           0            1            1           0             0          1           1                0                  7
               07:30 AM               0            0                 0               3           3            1            4           0             1          0           0                0                12
               07:45 AM               1            1                 0               1           2            0            2           1             0          0           0                0                  8
                     Total            1            2                 0               7           6            2            9           1             1          1           1                0                31

               08:00 AM                0            0                0              2            1              1           1            0            2           0            2             2                11
               08:15 AM                1            0                0              2            2              1           1            0            2           1            1             1                12
               08:30 AM                1            1                3              0            0              1           2            0            0           2            1             0                11
               08:45 AM                0            0                0              3            2              1           2            0            1           0            3             0                12
                    Total              2            1                3              7            5              4           6            0            5           3            7             3                46

             Grand Total              3             3             3                14           11           6             15            1           6          4               8            3                77
              Apprch %             33.3          33.3          33.3              45.2         35.5        19.4           68.2          4.5        27.3       26.7            53.3           20
                 Total %            3.9           3.9           3.9              18.2         14.3         7.8           19.5          1.3         7.8        5.2            10.4          3.9




                               River Road/Pike Access                         South Avenue (Route 30)                     I-95 SB On-Off Ramps                 South Avenue (Route 30)
                                      From North                                     From East                                  From South                            From West
       Start Time        Right      Thru         Left App. Total          Right     Thru     Left App. Total        Right      Thru      Left App. Total   Right     Thru     Left App. Total          Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
        08:00 AM              0         0          0           0             2         1        1           4          1           0       2           3      0          2             2           4          11
        08:15 AM             1          0          0           1             2         2        1           5          1           0       2           3      1          1             1           3          12
        08:30 AM              1         1          3           5             0         0        1           1          2           0       0           2      2          1             0           3          11
        08:45 AM              0         0          0           0             3         2        1           6          2           0       1           3      0          3             0           3          12
     Total Volume             2         1          3           6             7         5        4          16          6           0       5          11      3          7             3          13          46
     % App. Total         33.3       16.7         50                      43.8      31.2       25                   54.5           0    45.5               23.1       53.8          23.1
              PHF         .500       .250       .250       .300           .583      .625    1.000        .667       .750        .000    .625        .917   .375       .583          .375      .813          .958
                                                                               Transportation Data Corporation
                                                                                 Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
                                                                                  t (781) 587-0086 f (781) 587-0089
N/S: River Road/I-95 SB Ramps                                                                                                                                                        File Name          : 04051K
E/W: South Avenue (Route 30)                                                                                                                                                         Site Code          : 10865
City, State: Weston, MA                                                                                                                                                              Start Date         : 11/17/2010
Client: VHB/M. Kealey                                                                                                                                                                Page No            :1



                                River Road/Pike Access                            South Avenue (Route 30)                     I-95 SB On-Off Ramps                     South Avenue (Route 30)
                                       From North                                        From East                                  From South                                From West
       Start Time        Right       Thru        Left App. Total              Right     Thru     Left App. Total        Right      Thru      Left App. Total       Right     Thru     Left App. Total            Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
        08:00 AM             43          49       35        127                232        82         65         379        71       40         41        152          23            134            97    254          912
        08:15 AM             23          37        26         86               259        87         62         408        47       50         39        136          24            140          118     282          912
        08:30 AM             26          36        25         87               223      101          76         400        58       36         26        120          31            137          111     279          886
        08:45 AM             24          29        23         76               222        97         69         388        52       38         30        120          25            159          120     304          888
     Total Volume          116         151       109        376                936      367        272         1575      228       164       136         528        103             570          446    1119         3598
     % App. Total         30.9        40.2         29                         59.4     23.3       17.3                  43.2      31.1      25.8                     9.2           50.9         39.9
              PHF         .674        .770      .779       .740               .903     .908       .895          .965    .803      .820      .829        .868       .831            .896         .929     .920         .986
              Cars         114         150       106        370                929      362        268         1559      222       164       131         517        100             563          443    1106         3552
           % Cars         98.3        99.3      97.2       98.4               99.3     98.6       98.5          99.0    97.4       100      96.3        97.9       97.1            98.8         99.3     98.8         98.7
            Trucks            2           1         3          6                  7        5          4            16       6        0          5          11          3               7            3       13           46
         % Trucks           1.7         0.7       2.8        1.6                0.7      1.4        1.5           1.0     2.6        0        3.7         2.1        2.9             1.2          0.7      1.2          1.3


                                                                                                     River Road/Pike Access
                                                                                                     Out      In      Total
                                                                                                     1536      370     1906
                                                                                                       10        6       16
                                                                                                     1546      376     1922


                                                                                                            114  150  106
                                                                                                              2     1    3
                                                                                                            116  151  109
                                                                                                          Right Thru Left




                                                                                                Peak Hour Data
                                                           25
                                                         1713

                                                         1738
                                                        Total




                                                                                                                                                                      South Avenue (Route 30)
                                     South Avenue (Route 30)




                                                                                                                                                                       Out
                                                                                                                                                                        907

                                                                                                                                                                        891
                                                                    3
                                                                 443

                                                                 446




                                                                                                                                                     Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                                         16
                                                                Left




                                                                                                                                                      936

                                                                                                                                                      929




                                                                                                               North
                                                                                                                                                         7
                                                  13
                                               1106

                                               1119




                                                                                               Peak Hour Begins at 08:00 AM
                                                                          7
                                                                       563

                                                                       570
                                                                Right Thru
                                                In




                                                                                                                                                                               1575

                                                                                                                                                                               1559
                                                                                                                                                                                In
                                                                                                                                                            367

                                                                                                                                                            362



                                                                                                                                                                                  16
                                                                                                                                                               5




                                                                                               Cars
                                                                                               Trucks
                                                                    3
                                                                 100

                                                                 103




                                                                                                                                                     Left
                                         12
                                        607

                                        619




                                                                                                                                                      272

                                                                                                                                                      268
                                       Out




                                                                                                                                                                                        Total
                                                                                                                                                                                         2482

                                                                                                                                                                                         2450
                                                                                                                                                         4




                                                                                                                                                                                           32




                                                                                                          Left Thru Right
                                                                                                           131  164   222
                                                                                                              5    0    6
                                                                                                           136  164   228


                                                                                                      518       517     1035
                                                                                                         8       11       19
                                                                                                      526       528     1054
                                                                                                     Out       In      Total
                                                                                                      I-95 SB On-Off Ramps
                                                                        Transportation Data Corporation
                                                                          Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
                                                                           t (781) 587-0086 f (781) 587-0089
N/S: River Road/I-95 SB Ramps                                                                                                                                       File Name               : 04051KK
E/W: South Avenue (Route 30)                                                                                                                                        Site Code               : 10865
City, State: Weston, MA                                                                                                                                             Start Date              : 11/17/2010
Client: VHB/M. Kealey                                                                                                                                               Page No                 :1

                                                                                           Groups Printed- Cars - Trucks
                                   River Road/Pike Access                      South Avenue (Route 30)                 I-95 SB On-Off Ramps               South Avenue (Route 30)
                                         From North                                   From East                              From South                          From West
               Start Time         Right        Thru            Left            Right        Thru         Left         Right        Thru         Left      Right        Thru               Left          Int. Total
               04:00 PM              32          67             37              138          119           28            61           6          29          24         132                48                 721
               04:15 PM              59          68             43              127          124           31            82           9          38          20         127                64                 792
               04:30 PM              64          91             51              127          120           42            84          16          36          19         114                63                 827
               04:45 PM              45          62             63              123          129           38            98           8          27          25         104                56                 778
                     Total         200          288            194              515          492         139           325           39         130          88         477               231                3118

               05:00 PM              62            86           81              151          138          39              88             9       35          31            118             43                881
               05:15 PM              59            86           80              153          122          37             103             7       41          25            133             46                892
               05:30 PM              63            80           71              124          110          33             100             3       33          18            117             54                806
               05:45 PM              48            60           70              134          121          36              99            10       37          20            112             51                798
                    Total           232           312          302              562          491         145             390            29      146          94            480            194               3377

             Grand Total            432           600           496            1077          983          284          715               68      276        182             957            425              6495
              Apprch %             28.3          39.3          32.5             45.9        41.9         12.1         67.5              6.4     26.1       11.6            61.2           27.2
                 Total %             6.7           9.2           7.6            16.6        15.1           4.4           11               1       4.2        2.8           14.7             6.5
                    Cars            431           599           496            1065          979          280          711               66      276        180             947            418              6448
                 % Cars            99.8          99.8           100             98.9        99.6         98.6         99.4             97.1      100       98.9              99           98.4               99.3
                  Trucks               1             1             0              12            4            4            4               2         0          2             10               7                47
               % Trucks              0.2           0.2             0             1.1          0.4          1.4          0.6             2.9         0        1.1              1             1.6               0.7




                               River Road/Pike Access                      South Avenue (Route 30)                     I-95 SB On-Off Ramps                  South Avenue (Route 30)
                                      From North                                  From East                                  From South                             From West
       Start Time        Right      Thru         Left App. Total       Right     Thru     Left App. Total        Right      Thru      Left App. Total    Right     Thru     Left App. Total             Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:30 PM
        04:30 PM            64          91        51        206         127        120         42       289         84            16       36     136       19      114              63           196        827
        04:45 PM            45          62        63        170         123        129         38       290         98             8       27     133       25      104              56           185        778
        05:00 PM            62          86        81        229         151        138         39       328         88             9       35     132       31      118              43           192        881
        05:15 PM            59          86        80        225         153        122         37       312       103              7       41     151       25      133              46           204        892
     Total Volume          230        325        275        830         554        509       156       1219       373             40      139     552     100       469            208            777       3378
     % App. Total         27.7       39.2       33.1                   45.4       41.8      12.8                 67.6            7.2     25.2            12.9      60.4           26.8
              PHF         .898       .893       .849       .906        .905       .922      .929        .929     .905          .625      .848    .914    .806      .882           .825        .952           .947
              Cars         230        324        275        829         547        509       153       1209       371             39      139     549       99      464            206         769          3356
           % Cars          100       99.7        100       99.9        98.7        100      98.1        99.2     99.5          97.5       100    99.5    99.0      98.9           99.0        99.0           99.3
            Trucks            0          1         0           1           7         0          3          10        2             1        0        3       1         5              2           8             22
         % Trucks             0        0.3         0         0.1         1.3         0        1.9         0.8      0.5           2.5        0      0.5     1.0       1.1            1.0         1.0            0.7
                                                                           Transportation Data Corporation
                                                                             Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
                                                                              t (781) 587-0086 f (781) 587-0089
N/S: River Road/I-95 SB Ramps                                                                                                                                           File Name            : 04051KK
E/W: South Avenue (Route 30)                                                                                                                                            Site Code            : 10865
City, State: Weston, MA                                                                                                                                                 Start Date           : 11/17/2010
Client: VHB/M. Kealey                                                                                                                                                   Page No              :1

                                                                                                Groups Printed- Trucks
                                   River Road/Pike Access                        South Avenue (Route 30)                I-95 SB On-Off Ramps                South Avenue (Route 30)
                                         From North                                     From East                             From South                           From West
               Start Time         Right        Thru                Left          Right        Thru         Left        Right        Thru           Left     Right        Thru               Left        Int. Total
               04:00 PM               0            0                 0               2           1            1            0           0             0          0           3                 3                10
               04:15 PM               1            0                 0               2           1            0            1           1             0          1           1                 2                10
               04:30 PM               0            0                 0               3           0            0            0           0             0          0           1                 1                  5
               04:45 PM               0            1                 0               1           0            0            0           1             0          0           0                 0                  3
                     Total            1            1                 0               8           2            1            1           2             0          1           5                 6                28

               05:00 PM                0            0                0              2            0              3           1            0            0            1             2            1                10
               05:15 PM                0            0                0              1            0              0           1            0            0            0             2            0                 4
               05:30 PM                0            0                0              0            0              0           0            0            0            0             0            0                 0
               05:45 PM                0            0                0              1            2              0           1            0            0            0             1            0                 5
                    Total              0            0                0              4            2              3           3            0            0            1             5            1                19

             Grand Total              1             1                0             12            4           4              4             2           0         2               10             7               47
              Apprch %               50            50                0             60           20          20           66.7          33.3           0      10.5             52.6          36.8
                 Total %            2.1           2.1                0           25.5          8.5         8.5            8.5           4.3           0       4.3             21.3          14.9




                               River Road/Pike Access                         South Avenue (Route 30)                     I-95 SB On-Off Ramps                 South Avenue (Route 30)
                                      From North                                     From East                                  From South                            From West
       Start Time        Right      Thru         Left App. Total          Right     Thru     Left App. Total        Right      Thru      Left App. Total   Right     Thru     Left App. Total           Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:00 PM
        04:00 PM              0         0          0           0             2         1         1          4          0           0        0          0       0          3             3           6          10
        04:15 PM             1          0          0           1             2         1         0          3          1           1        0          2       1          1             2           4          10
        04:30 PM              0         0          0           0             3         0         0          3          0           0        0          0       0          1             1           2           5
        04:45 PM              0         1          0           1             1         0         0          1          0           1        0          1       0          0             0           0           3
     Total Volume             1         1          0           2             8         2         1         11          1           2        0          3       1          5             6          12          28
     % App. Total           50         50          0                      72.7      18.2       9.1                  33.3        66.7        0                8.3       41.7            50
              PHF         .250       .250       .000       .500           .667      .500     .250        .688       .250        .500     .000       .375   .250        .417          .500      .500          .700
                                                                                Transportation Data Corporation
                                                                                  Mario Perone, mperone1@verizon.net
                                                                                   t (781) 587-0086 f (781) 587-0089
N/S: River Road/I-95 SB Ramps                                                                                                                                                        File Name          : 04051KK
E/W: South Avenue (Route 30)                                                                                                                                                         Site Code          : 10865
City, State: Weston, MA                                                                                                                                                              Start Date         : 11/17/2010
Client: VHB/M. Kealey                                                                                                                                                                Page No            :1



                               River Road/Pike Access                              South Avenue (Route 30)                    I-95 SB On-Off Ramps                     South Avenue (Route 30)
                                      From North                                          From East                                 From South                                From West
       Start Time        Right      Thru         Left App. Total               Right     Thru     Left App. Total       Right      Thru      Left App. Total       Right     Thru     Left App. Total            Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:30 PM
        04:30 PM            64          91        51        206                 127      120         42         289        84        16       36         136          19            114            63    196          827
        04:45 PM            45          62        63        170                 123      129         38         290        98         8       27         133          25            104            56    185          778
        05:00 PM            62          86        81        229                 151      138         39         328        88         9       35         132          31            118            43    192          881
        05:15 PM            59          86        80        225                 153      122         37         312      103          7       41         151          25            133            46    204          892
     Total Volume          230        325        275        830                 554      509       156         1219      373         40      139         552        100             469          208     777         3378
     % App. Total         27.7       39.2       33.1                           45.4     41.8      12.8                  67.6        7.2     25.2                   12.9            60.4         26.8
              PHF         .898       .893       .849       .906                .905     .922      .929          .929    .905      .625      .848        .914       .806            .882         .825     .952         .947
              Cars         230        324        275        829                 547      509       153         1209      371         39      139         549          99            464          206      769        3356
           % Cars          100       99.7        100       99.9                98.7      100      98.1          99.2    99.5      97.5       100        99.5       99.0            98.9         99.0     99.0         99.3
            Trucks            0          1         0           1                   7       0          3            10       2         1        0            3          1               5            2        8           22
         % Trucks             0        0.3         0         0.1                 1.3       0        1.9           0.8     0.5       2.5        0          0.5        1.0             1.1          1.0      1.0          0.7


                                                                                                     River Road/Pike Access
                                                                                                     Out      In      Total
                                                                                                      792      829     1621
                                                                                                       10        1       11
                                                                                                      802      830     1632


                                                                                                            230  324  275
                                                                                                              0     1    0
                                                                                                            230  325  275
                                                                                                          Right Thru Left




                                                                                                Peak Hour Data
                                                             8
                                                         1647

                                                         1655
                                                        Total




                                                                                                                                                                      South Avenue (Route 30)
                                     South Avenue (Route 30)




                                                                                                                                                                       1117

                                                                                                                                                                       1110
                                                                                                                                                                       Out
                                                                     2
                                                                  206

                                                                  208




                                                                                                                                                     Right Thru
                                                                 Left




                                                                                                                                                      554

                                                                                                                                                      547



                                                                                                                                                                           7
                                                                                                               North
                                                                                                                                                         7
                                                   8
                                                 769

                                                 777




                                                                                               Peak Hour Begins at 04:30 PM
                                                                           5
                                                                        464

                                                                        469
                                                                 Right Thru
                                                In




                                                                                                                                                                               1219

                                                                                                                                                                               1209
                                                                                                                                                                                In
                                                                                                                                                            509

                                                                                                                                                            509



                                                                                                                                                                                  10
                                                                                                                                                               0




                                                                                               Cars
                                                                                               Trucks
                                                                     1
                                                                    99

                                                                  100




                                                                                                                                                     Left
                                           0
                                        878

                                        878




                                                                                                                                                      156

                                                                                                                                                      153
                                       Out




                                                                                                                                                                                        Total
                                                                                                                                                                                         2336

                                                                                                                                                                                         2319
                                                                                                                                                         3




                                                                                                                                                                                           17




                                                                                                          Left Thru Right
                                                                                                           139    39  371
                                                                                                              0    1    2
                                                                                                           139    40  373


                                                                                                      576       549     1125
                                                                                                         5        3        8
                                                                                                      581       552     1133
                                                                                                     Out       In      Total
                                                                                                      I-95 SB On-Off Ramps
N/S: Lexington Street                                                                      PRECISION                                                          File Name      : 112738 A
E/W: Wolcott Street/Gas Station Driveway                                                   D A T A                                                            Site Code      : 10865
                                                                                           INDUSTRIES, LLC
City, State: Newton, MA                                                               P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
                                                                                                                                                              Start Date     : 12/15/2011
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                           Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                     Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                              Page No        :1
                                                                              Groups Printed- Cars - Heavy Vehicles
                                  Lexington Street                           Wolcott Street                   Lexington Street                       Gas Station Driveway
                                    From North                                From East                          From South                              From West
             Start Time       Right       Thru          Left           Right        Thru       Left       Right       Thru                Left     Right        Thru        Left       Int. Total
           07:00 AM              4         159           0                2            0           31            39           112           1            1          0          0           349
           07:15 AM              2         183           6                2            1           42            36           132           3            2          0          0           409
           07:30 AM              3         171           2                4            1           46            30           135           0            0          0          2           394
           07:45 AM              0         225           5                1            2           49            33           160           1            0          0          0           476
               Total             9         738          13                9            4          168           138           539           5            3          0          2          1628

           08:00 AM              0         205           3                4            3           45            34           152           0            0          0          0           446
           08:15 AM              4         215           5                2            1           43            22           157           2            2          0          0           453
           08:30 AM              3         226           2                1            0           44            25           146           3            1          0          1           452
           08:45 AM              3         168           6                1            1           51            25           170           2            0          0          1           428
               Total            10         814          16                8            5          183           106           625           7            3          0          2          1779

      Grand Total              19        1552           29              17            9          351           244           1164         12           6            0          4          3407
        Apprch %               1.2         97           1.8             4.5         2.4          93.1          17.2            82        0.8         60             0        40
          Total %              0.6        45.6          0.9             0.5         0.3          10.3           7.2           34.2       0.4         0.2            0        0.1
            Cars               19        1494            29             16            9          341           236           1117         12           6            0          4          3283
          % Cars              100         96.3         100             94.1        100           97.2          96.7             96       100        100             0       100            96.4
   Heavy Vehicles                0          58            0               1           0           10              8             47         0           0            0          0           124
 % Heavy Vehicles                0         3.7            0             5.9           0           2.8           3.3              4         0           0            0          0            3.6




                             Lexington Street                            Wolcott Street                              Lexington Street                   Gas Station Driveway
                               From North                                 From East                                    From South                           From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total        Right     Thru      Left     App. Total     Right      Thru      Left App. Total   Right    Thru      Left App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
    07:45 AM          0    225        5     230       1                      2      49            52          33      160          1      194        0          0      0           0      476
     08:00 AM         0    205        3     208       4                      3       45           52         34       152          0      186        0          0      0           0      446
     08:15 AM         4    215        5     224       2                      1       43           46          22      157          2      181        2          0      0           2      453
     08:30 AM         3    226        2     231       1                      0       44           45          25      146          3      174        1          0      1           2      452
 Total Volume         7    871       15     893       8                      6     181           195        114       615          6      735        3          0      1           4     1827
  % App. Total      0.8   97.5      1.7             4.1                    3.1    92.8                     15.5      83.7        0.8                75          0     25
           PHF    .438    .963    .750     .966    .500                  .500     .923          .938       .838      .961      .500       .947    .375       .000   .250       .500       .960
           Cars       7    841      15      863       7                      6     175           188        107       588          6       701       3          0      1          4      1756
       % Cars      100    96.6     100     96.6    87.5                   100     96.7          96.4       93.9      95.6       100       95.4     100          0    100        100       96.1
 Heavy Vehicles       0      30       0      30       1                      0        6             7          7        27         0        34       0          0      0          0         71
 % Heavy Vehicles     0     3.4       0      3.4   12.5                      0      3.3           3.6        6.1       4.4         0        4.6      0          0      0          0        3.9
N/S: Lexington Street                                                                      PRECISION                                                          File Name      : 112738 A
E/W: Wolcott Street/Gas Station Driveway                                                   D A T A                                                            Site Code      : 10865
                                                                                           INDUSTRIES, LLC
City, State: Newton, MA                                                               P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
                                                                                                                                                              Start Date     : 12/15/2011
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                           Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                     Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                              Page No        :1
                                                                                        Groups Printed- Cars
                                  Lexington Street                           Wolcott Street                    Lexington Street                      Gas Station Driveway
                                    From North                                From East                          From South                              From West
             Start Time       Right       Thru          Left           Right        Thru        Left       Right       Thru               Left     Right        Thru        Left       Int. Total
           07:00 AM              4         152           0                2            0           29            39          109            1            1          0          0           337
           07:15 AM              2         174           6                2            1           41            35          123            3            2          0          0           389
           07:30 AM              3         165           2                4            1           45            30          132            0            0          0          2           384
           07:45 AM              0         213           5                1            2           48            33          154            1            0          0          0           457
               Total             9         704          13                9            4          163           137          518            5            3          0          2          1567

           08:00 AM              0         198           3                4            3           44              33        147            0            0          0          0           432
           08:15 AM              4         211           5                1            1           41              19        147            2            2          0          0           433
           08:30 AM              3         219           2                1            0           42              22        140            3            1          0          1           434
           08:45 AM              3         162           6                1            1           51              25        165            2            0          0          1           417
               Total            10         790          16                7            5          178              99        599            7            3          0          2          1716

        Grand Total            19        1494           29              16            9          341           236          1117           12          6            0         4           3283
          Apprch %             1.2        96.9          1.9             4.4         2.5          93.2          17.3          81.8         0.9        60             0       40
           Total %             0.6        45.5          0.9             0.5         0.3          10.4           7.2           34          0.4        0.2            0       0.1




                             Lexington Street                            Wolcott Street                              Lexington Street                   Gas Station Driveway
                               From North                                 From East                                    From South                           From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total        Right     Thru      Left     App. Total     Right      Thru      Left App. Total   Right    Thru      Left App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
    07:45 AM         0     213       5      218       1                     2       48            51         33       154        1        188        0          0      0           0      457
    08:00 AM         0     198       3      201       4                     3       44            51         33       147        0        180        0          0      0           0      432
    08:15 AM         4     211       5      220       1                     1       41            43         19       147        2        168        2          0      0           2      433
    08:30 AM         3     219       2      224       1                     0       42            43         22       140        3        165        1          0      1           2      434
 Total Volume        7     841      15      863       7                     6      175           188        107       588        6        701        3          0      1           4     1756
 % App. Total      0.8    97.5     1.7              3.7                   3.2     93.1                     15.3      83.9      0.9                  75          0     25
          PHF    .438     .960    .750     .963    .438                  .500     .911          .922       .811      .955     .500        .932    .375       .000   .250       .500       .961
N/S: Lexington Street                                                                        PRECISION                                                          File Name      : 112738 A
E/W: Wolcott Street/Gas Station Driveway                                                     D A T A                                                            Site Code      : 10865
                                                                                             INDUSTRIES, LLC
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                 P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
                                                                                                                                                                Start Date     : 12/15/2011
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                             Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                       Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                Page No        :1
                                                                                    Groups Printed- Heavy Vehicles
                                  Lexington Street                             Wolcott Street                    Lexington Street                      Gas Station Driveway
                                    From North                                  From East                          From South                              From West
             Start Time       Right       Thru          Left             Right        Thru        Left      Right        Thru               Left     Right        Thru        Left       Int. Total
           07:00 AM              0           7               0              0            0             2              0          3            0            0          0          0             12
           07:15 AM              0           9               0              0            0             1              1          9            0            0          0          0             20
           07:30 AM              0           6               0              0            0             1              0          3            0            0          0          0             10
           07:45 AM              0          12               0              0            0             1              0          6            0            0          0          0             19
               Total             0          34               0              0            0             5              1         21            0            0          0          0             61

           08:00 AM              0           7               0              0            0             1              1          5            0            0          0          0             14
           08:15 AM              0           4               0              1            0             2              3         10            0            0          0          0             20
           08:30 AM              0           7               0              0            0             2              3          6            0            0          0          0             18
           08:45 AM              0           6               0              0            0             0              0          5            0            0          0          0             11
               Total             0          24               0              1            0             5              7         26            0            0          0          0             63

        Grand Total              0         58                0              1            0          10              8          47             0            0          0          0           124
          Apprch %               0        100                0            9.1            0         90.9          14.5         85.5            0            0          0          0
           Total %               0        46.8               0            0.8            0          8.1           6.5         37.9            0            0          0          0




                             Lexington Street                              Wolcott Street                              Lexington Street                   Gas Station Driveway
                               From North                                   From East                                    From South                           From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total          Right     Thru      Left     App. Total     Right      Thru      Left App. Total   Right    Thru      Left App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
    07:45 AM         0      12       0       12       0                       0        1              1         0         6        0           6       0          0      0           0         19
    08:00 AM         0       7       0        7       0                       0        1              1         1         5        0           6       0          0      0           0         14
    08:15 AM         0       4       0        4       1                       0        2              3         3        10        0          13       0          0      0           0         20
    08:30 AM         0       7       0        7       0                       0        2              2         3         6        0           9       0          0      0           0         18
 Total Volume        0      30       0       30       1                       0        6              7         7        27        0          34       0          0      0           0         71
 % App. Total        0     100       0             14.3                       0     85.7                     20.6      79.4        0                   0          0      0
          PHF    .000     .625    .000     .625    .250                    .000     .750          .583       .583      .675     .000        .654    .000       .000   .000       .000       .888
N/S: Lexington Street                                                             PRECISION                                                                  File Name           : 112738 A
E/W: Wolcott Street/Gas Station Driveway                                          D A T A                                                                    Site Code           : 10865
                                                                                  INDUSTRIES, LLC
City, State: Newton, MA                                                        P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
                                                                                                                                                             Start Date          : 12/15/2011
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                    Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                              Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                             Page No             :1
                                                                        Groups Printed- Peds and Bicycles
                             Lexington Street                     Wolcott Street                      Lexington Street                                   Gas Station Driveway
                               From North                          From East                            From South                                           From West
       Start Time    Right     Thru       Left   Peds     Right    Thru       Left   Peds     Right     Thru       Left               Peds         Right     Thru       Left     Peds         Int. Total
      07:00 AM           0        0         0       0         0       0           0            1           0          0         0          0          0          0       0           2                3
      07:15 AM           0        0         0       0         0       0           0            3           0          0         0          1          0          0       0           4                8
      07:30 AM           0        0         0       0         0       0           1            2           0          0         0          0          0          0       0           0                3
      07:45 AM           0        0         0       1         0       0           0            1           0          0         0          0          0          0       0           1                3
          Total          0        0         0       1         0       0           1            7           0          0         0          1          0          0       0           7               17

      08:00 AM           0        0         0       1         0       0           0            0           0          0         0          0          0          0       0           3                4
      08:15 AM           0        0         0       0         0       0           0            3           1          0         0          0          0          0       0           4                8
      08:30 AM           0        0         0       0         0       0           0            0           0          0         0          0          0          0       0           0                0
      08:45 AM           0        0         0       0         0       0           0            0           0          0         0          0          0          0       0           2                2
          Total          0        0         0       1         0       0           0            3           1          0         0          0          0          0       0           9               14

   Grand Total           0        0         0       2         0       0          1        10             1            0         0         1           0          0       0        16                 31
     Apprch %            0        0         0    100          0       0        9.1       90.9          50             0         0       50            0          0       0       100
      Total %            0        0         0     6.5         0       0        3.2       32.3          3.2            0         0       3.2           0          0       0       51.6




                           Lexington Street                      Wolcott Street                                  Lexington Street                         Gas Station Driveway
                             From North                            From East                                        From South                                 From West
   Start Time Right Thru         Left Peds App. Total Right   Thru    Left Peds       App. Total   Right       Thru    Left Peds     App. Total   Right   Thru    Left Peds      App. Total    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:15 AM
  07:15 AM      0       0     0     0        0     0  0    0    3                            3        0          0        0     1           1        0       0       0       4           4            8
  07:30 AM      0       0     0     0        0     0  0    1
  07:45 AM      0       0     0     1        1     0  0    0    1                            1        0    0            0        0          0        0       0      0    1               1           3
  08:00 AM      0       0     0     1        1     0  0    0    0                            0        0    0            0        0          0        0       0      0    3               3           4
 Total Volume   0       0     0     2        2     0  0    1    6                            7        0    0            0        1          1        0       0      0    8               8          18
 % App. Total   0       0     0 100                0  0 14.3 85.7                                     0    0            0      100                   0       0      0 100
        PHF .000 .000 .000 .500          .500 .000 .000 .250 .500                       .583       .000 .000         .000     .250     .250       .000    .000   .000 .500         .500          .563
N/S: Lexington Street                                                                             PRECISION                                                                    File Name            : 112738 A
E/W: Wolcott Street/Gas Station Driveway                                                          D A T A                                                                      Site Code            : 10865
                                                                                                  INDUSTRIES, LLC
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                       P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
                                                                                                                                                                               Start Date           : 12/15/2011
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                   Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                             Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                               Page No              :1


                             Lexington Street                                    Wolcott Street                              Lexington Street                       Gas Station Driveway
                               From North                                         From East                                    From South                               From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total                  Right   Thru      Left    App. Total      Right      Thru      Left App. Total       Right    Thru      Left App. Total           Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
    07:45 AM          0    225        5     230       1                              2      49            52          33      160         1       194            0            0                 0     0       476
     08:00 AM         0    205        3     208       4                              3       45           52         34       152         0       186            0            0                 0     0       446
     08:15 AM         4    215        5     224       2                              1       43           46          22      157         2       181            2            0                 0     2       453
     08:30 AM         3    226        2     231       1                              0       44           45          25      146         3       174            1            0                 1     2       452
 Total Volume         7    871       15     893       8                              6     181           195        114       615         6       735            3            0                 1     4      1827
  % App. Total      0.8   97.5      1.7             4.1                            3.1    92.8                     15.5      83.7       0.8                     75            0                25
           PHF    .438    .963    .750     .966    .500                          .500     .923          .938       .838      .961     .500        .947        .375         .000              .250   .500      .960
           Cars       7    841      15      863       7                              6     175           188        107       588         6        701           3            0                 1      4     1756
       % Cars      100    96.6     100     96.6    87.5                           100     96.7          96.4       93.9      95.6      100        95.4         100            0               100    100      96.1
 Heavy Vehicles       0      30       0      30       1                              0        6             7          7        27        0         34           0            0                 0      0        71
 % Heavy Vehicles     0     3.4       0      3.4   12.5                              0      3.3           3.6        6.1       4.4        0         4.6          0            0                 0      0       3.9

                                                                                                  Lexington Street
                                                                                              Out        In      Total
                                                                                               596        863      1459
                                                                                                28         30        58
                                                                                               624        893      1517


                                                                                                      7  841        15
                                                                                                      0   30          0
                                                                                                      7  871        15
                                                                                                  Right Thru      Left




                                                                                         Peak Hour Data
                                                      23
                                                       0
                                                      23
                                                   Total




                                                                                                                                                                 Out
                                 Gas Station Driveway




                                                               1
                                                               0
                                                               1




                                                                                                                                                                  129

                                                                                                                                                                  122
                                                                                                                                                Right Thru
                                                           Left




                                                                                                                                                                     7
                                                                                                         North
                                                                                                                                                                      Wolcott Street
                                                                                                                                                    8
                                                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                                                    7
                                               4
                                               0
                                               4




                                                                                           Peak Hour Begins at 07:45 AM
                                                                     0
                                                                     0
                                                                     0
                                                           Right Thru
                                            In




                                                                                                                                                                           In
                                                                                                                                                                            195

                                                                                                                                                                            188



                                                                                           Cars
                                                                                                                                                          6
                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                          6



                                                                                                                                                                               7




                                                                                           Heavy Vehicles
                                                               3
                                                               0
                                                               3




                                                                                                                                                Left
                                   19
                                     0
                                   19




                                                                                                                                                 181

                                                                                                                                                 175
                                 Out




                                                                                                                                                                                     Total
                                                                                                                                                    6



                                                                                                                                                                                      324

                                                                                                                                                                                      310
                                                                                                                                                                                        14




                                                                                                  Left Thru Right
                                                                                                      6 588   107
                                                                                                      0  27     7
                                                                                                      6 615   114


                                                                                              1019        701      1720
                                                                                                36         34        70
                                                                                              1055        735      1790
                                                                                              Out        In      Total
                                                                                                  Lexington Street
N/S: Lexington Street                                                                        PRECISION                                                          File Name       : 112738 AA
E/W:Wolcott Street/ Gas Station Driveway                                                     D A T A                                                            Site Code       : 10865
                                                                                             INDUSTRIES, LLC
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                 P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
                                                                                                                                                                Start Date      : 12/15/2011
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                             Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                       Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                Page No         :1
                                                                                Groups Printed- Cars - Heavy Vehicles
                                  Lexington Street                             Wolcott Street                   Lexington Street                       Gas Station Driveway
                                    From North                                  From East                          From South                              From West
             Start Time       Right       Thru          Left             Right        Thru       Left       Right       Thru                Left     Right        Thru         Left       Int. Total
           04:00 PM              1         160               1              4            0           47            21           182           2         3             1          1            423
           04:15 PM              2         151               0              2            1           42            32           149           2         1             0          0            382
           04:30 PM              4         172               3              2            4           45            26           163           2         4             0          1            426
           04:45 PM              5         161               1              1            0           38            24           178           3         3             2          2            418
               Total            12         644               5              9            5          172           103           672           9        11             3          4           1649

           05:00 PM              1         190               1              3            0           44            20           177           3            1          0          0            440
           05:15 PM              2         190               1              3            1           39            28           189           2            2          0          2            459
           05:30 PM              4         187               2              1            0           49            24           198           0            1          0          1            467
           05:45 PM              0         141               2              3            1           50            29           191           3            0          0          1            421
               Total             7         708               6             10            2          182           101           755           8            4          0          4           1787

      Grand Total              19        1352           11                19            7          354           204           1427         17        15             3           8           3436
        Apprch %               1.4        97.8          0.8                 5         1.8          93.2          12.4           86.6         1       57.7         11.5        30.8
          Total %              0.6        39.3          0.3               0.6         0.2          10.3           5.9           41.5       0.5        0.4          0.1         0.2
            Cars               19        1321            11               19            7          354           195           1393         17        15             3           8           3362
          % Cars              100         97.7         100               100         100           100           95.6           97.6       100       100          100         100             97.8
   Heavy Vehicles                0          31            0                 0           0             0             9             34         0          0            0           0             74
 % Heavy Vehicles                0         2.3            0                 0           0             0           4.4            2.4         0          0            0           0             2.2




                             Lexington Street                              Wolcott Street                              Lexington Street                   Gas Station Driveway
                               From North                                   From East                                    From South                           From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total          Right     Thru      Left     App. Total     Right      Thru      Left App. Total   Right    Thru      Left App. Total    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
    05:00 PM         1     190        1     192        3                      0       44            47         20       177          3      200        1          0      0            1      440
     05:15 PM        2     190        1     193        3                      1       39            43         28       189          2      219        2          0      2            4      459
     05:30 PM        4     187        2     193        1                      0       49            50         24       198          0      222        1          0      1            2      467
     05:45 PM        0     141        2     143        3                      1       50            54         29       191          3      223        0          0      1            1      421
 Total Volume        7     708        6     721       10                      2      182           194        101       755          8      864        4          0      4            8     1787
  % App. Total       1    98.2      0.8              5.2                      1     93.8                     11.7      87.4        0.9                50          0     50
           PHF    .438    .932    .750     .934    .833                    .500     .910          .898       .871      .953      .667       .969    .500       .000   .500       .500        .957
           Cars      7     694        6     707       10                      2      182           194        101       743          8       852       4          0      4          8       1761
       % Cars      100    98.0     100     98.1     100                     100      100           100        100      98.4       100       98.6     100          0    100        100        98.5
 Heavy Vehicles      0       14       0      14        0                      0        0             0          0         12         0        12       0          0      0          0          26
 % Heavy Vehicles    0      2.0       0      1.9       0                      0        0             0          0        1.6         0        1.4      0          0      0          0         1.5
N/S: Lexington Street                                                                        PRECISION                                                          File Name       : 112738 AA
E/W:Wolcott Street/ Gas Station Driveway                                                     D A T A                                                            Site Code       : 10865
                                                                                             INDUSTRIES, LLC
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                 P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
                                                                                                                                                                Start Date      : 12/15/2011
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                             Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                       Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                Page No         :1
                                                                                          Groups Printed- Cars
                                  Lexington Street                             Wolcott Street                    Lexington Street                      Gas Station Driveway
                                    From North                                  From East                          From South                              From West
             Start Time       Right       Thru          Left             Right        Thru        Left       Right       Thru               Left     Right        Thru         Left       Int. Total
           04:00 PM              1         158               1              4            0           47              17        173            2         3             1          1            408
           04:15 PM              2         147               0              2            1           42              31        143            2         1             0          0            371
           04:30 PM              4         167               3              2            4           45              23        159            2         4             0          1            414
           04:45 PM              5         155               1              1            0           38              23        175            3         3             2          2            408
               Total            12         627               5              9            5          172              94        650            9        11             3          4           1601

           05:00 PM              1         187               1              3            0           44            20          175            3            1          0          0            435
           05:15 PM              2         187               1              3            1           39            28          188            2            2          0          2            455
           05:30 PM              4         183               2              1            0           49            24          193            0            1          0          1            458
           05:45 PM              0         137               2              3            1           50            29          187            3            0          0          1            413
               Total             7         694               6             10            2          182           101          743            8            4          0          4           1761

        Grand Total            19        1321           11                19            7          354           195          1393           17       15             3           8           3362
          Apprch %             1.4        97.8          0.8                 5         1.8          93.2          12.1          86.8         1.1      57.7         11.5        30.8
           Total %             0.6        39.3          0.3               0.6         0.2          10.5           5.8          41.4         0.5       0.4          0.1         0.2




                             Lexington Street                              Wolcott Street                              Lexington Street                   Gas Station Driveway
                               From North                                   From East                                    From South                           From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total          Right     Thru      Left     App. Total     Right      Thru      Left App. Total   Right    Thru      Left App. Total    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
    05:00 PM         1     187       1      189       3                       0       44            47         20       175        3        198        1          0      0            1      435
    05:15 PM         2     187       1      190       3                       1       39            43         28       188        2        218        2          0      2            4      455
    05:30 PM         4     183       2      189       1                       0       49            50         24       193        0        217        1          0      1            2      458
    05:45 PM         0     137       2      139       3                       1       50            54         29       187        3        219        0          0      1            1      413
 Total Volume        7     694       6      707      10                       2      182           194        101       743        8        852        4          0      4            8     1761
 % App. Total        1    98.2     0.8              5.2                       1     93.8                     11.9      87.2      0.9                  50          0     50
          PHF    .438     .928    .750     .930    .833                    .500     .910          .898       .871      .962     .667        .973    .500       .000   .500       .500        .961
N/S: Lexington Street                                                                        PRECISION                                                          File Name      : 112738 AA
E/W:Wolcott Street/ Gas Station Driveway                                                     D A T A                                                            Site Code      : 10865
                                                                                             INDUSTRIES, LLC
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                 P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
                                                                                                                                                                Start Date     : 12/15/2011
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                             Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                       Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                Page No        :1
                                                                                    Groups Printed- Heavy Vehicles
                                  Lexington Street                             Wolcott Street                    Lexington Street                      Gas Station Driveway
                                    From North                                  From East                          From South                              From West
             Start Time       Right       Thru          Left             Right        Thru        Left      Right        Thru               Left     Right        Thru        Left       Int. Total
           04:00 PM              0           2               0              0            0             0              4          9            0            0          0          0             15
           04:15 PM              0           4               0              0            0             0              1          6            0            0          0          0             11
           04:30 PM              0           5               0              0            0             0              3          4            0            0          0          0             12
           04:45 PM              0           6               0              0            0             0              1          3            0            0          0          0             10
               Total             0          17               0              0            0             0              9         22            0            0          0          0             48

           05:00 PM              0           3               0              0            0             0              0          2            0            0          0          0              5
           05:15 PM              0           3               0              0            0             0              0          1            0            0          0          0              4
           05:30 PM              0           4               0              0            0             0              0          5            0            0          0          0              9
           05:45 PM              0           4               0              0            0             0              0          4            0            0          0          0              8
               Total             0          14               0              0            0             0              0         12            0            0          0          0             26

        Grand Total              0         31                0              0            0             0            9          34             0            0          0          0             74
          Apprch %               0        100                0              0            0             0         20.9         79.1            0            0          0          0
           Total %               0        41.9               0              0            0             0         12.2         45.9            0            0          0          0




                             Lexington Street                              Wolcott Street                              Lexington Street                   Gas Station Driveway
                               From North                                   From East                                    From South                           From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total          Right     Thru      Left     App. Total     Right      Thru      Left App. Total   Right    Thru      Left App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:00 PM
    04:00 PM         0       2       0        2       0                       0        0              0         4         9        0          13       0          0      0           0         15
    04:15 PM         0       4       0        4       0                       0        0              0         1         6        0           7       0          0      0           0         11
    04:30 PM         0       5       0        5       0                       0        0              0         3         4        0           7       0          0      0           0         12
    04:45 PM         0       6       0        6       0                       0        0              0         1         3        0           4       0          0      0           0         10
 Total Volume        0      17       0       17       0                       0        0              0         9        22        0          31       0          0      0           0         48
 % App. Total        0     100       0                0                       0        0                       29        71        0                   0          0      0
          PHF    .000     .708    .000     .708    .000                    .000     .000          .000       .563      .611     .000        .596    .000       .000   .000       .000       .800
N/S: Lexington Street                                                             PRECISION                                                                  File Name           : 112738 AA
E/W:Wolcott Street/ Gas Station Driveway                                          D A T A                                                                    Site Code           : 10865
                                                                                  INDUSTRIES, LLC
City, State: Newton, MA                                                        P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
                                                                                                                                                             Start Date          : 12/15/2011
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                    Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                              Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                             Page No             :1
                                                                        Groups Printed- Peds and Bicycles
                             Lexington Street                     Wolcott Street                      Lexington Street                                   Gas Station Driveway
                               From North                          From East                            From South                                           From West
       Start Time    Right     Thru       Left   Peds     Right    Thru       Left   Peds     Right     Thru       Left               Peds         Right     Thru       Left     Peds         Int. Total
      04:00 PM           0        0         0       0         0       0           0            1           0          0         0          0          0          0       0          1                 2
      04:15 PM           0        0         0       2         0       0           0            0           0          2         0          0          0          0       0          3                 7
      04:30 PM           0        0         0       2         0       0           0            0           0          0         0          0          0          0       0         11                13
      04:45 PM           0        0         0       0         0       0           0            0           0          0         0          0          0          0       0          4                 4
          Total          0        0         0       4         0       0           0            1           0          2         0          0          0          0       0         19                26

      05:00 PM           0        0         0       0         0       0           0            0           0          0         0          0          0          0       0           1                 1
      05:15 PM           0        0         0       0         0       0           0            1           0          0         0          0          0          0       0           1                 2
      05:30 PM           0        0         0       2         0       0           0            0           0          1         0          0          0          0       0           1                 4
      05:45 PM           0        0         0       0         0       0           0            0           0          1         0          0          0          0       0           1                 2
          Total          0        0         0       2         0       0           0            1           0          2         0          0          0          0       0           4                 9

   Grand Total           0        0         0       6         0       0           0          2             0         4          0          0          0          0       0        23                 35
     Apprch %            0        0         0    100          0       0           0       100              0      100           0          0          0          0       0       100
      Total %            0        0         0    17.1         0       0           0        5.7             0      11.4          0          0          0          0       0       65.7




                           Lexington Street                      Wolcott Street                                  Lexington Street                         Gas Station Driveway
                             From North                            From East                                        From South                                 From West
   Start Time Right Thru         Left Peds App. Total Right   Thru    Left Peds       App. Total   Right       Thru    Left Peds     App. Total   Right   Thru    Left Peds      App. Total    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:00 PM
  04:00 PM      0       0     0     0        0     0  0    0    1                            1        0    0              0     0           0        0       0      0    1             1             2
  04:15 PM      0       0     0     2        2     0  0    0    0                            0        0    2                                2        0       0      0    3             3             7
  04:30 PM      0       0     0     2        2     0  0    0    0                            0        0    0            0        0          0        0       0      0   11            11            13
  04:45 PM      0       0     0     0        0     0  0    0    0                            0        0    0            0        0          0        0       0      0    4             4             4
 Total Volume   0       0     0     4        4     0  0    0    1                            1        0    2            0        0          2        0       0      0   19            19            26
 % App. Total   0       0     0 100                0  0    0 100                                      0 100             0        0                   0       0      0 100
        PHF .000 .000 .000 .500          .500 .000 .000 .000 .250                       .250       .000 .250         .000     .000     .250       .000    .000   .000 .432         .432          .500
N/S: Lexington Street                                                                             PRECISION                                                                   File Name            : 112738 AA
E/W:Wolcott Street/ Gas Station Driveway                                                          D A T A                                                                     Site Code            : 10865
                                                                                                  INDUSTRIES, LLC
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                      P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
                                                                                                                                                                              Start Date           : 12/15/2011
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                  Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                            Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                              Page No              :1


                             Lexington Street                                    Wolcott Street                             Lexington Street                       Gas Station Driveway
                               From North                                         From East                                   From South                               From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total                  Right   Thru      Left    App. Total     Right      Thru      Left App. Total       Right    Thru      Left App. Total           Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
    05:00 PM         1     190        1     192        3                            0      44            47         20       177         3       200            1            0                 0     1       440
     05:15 PM        2     190        1     193        3                            1      39            43         28       189         2       219            2            0                 2     4       459
     05:30 PM        4     187        2     193        1                            0      49            50         24       198         0       222            1            0                 1     2       467
     05:45 PM        0     141        2     143        3                            1      50            54         29       191         3       223            0            0                 1     1       421
 Total Volume        7     708        6     721       10                            2     182           194        101       755         8       864            4            0                 4     8      1787
  % App. Total       1    98.2      0.8              5.2                            1    93.8                     11.7      87.4       0.9                     50            0                50
           PHF    .438    .932    .750     .934    .833                          .500    .910          .898       .871      .953     .667        .969        .500         .000              .500   .500      .957
           Cars      7     694        6     707       10                            2     182           194        101       743         8        852           4            0                 4      8     1761
       % Cars      100    98.0     100     98.1     100                           100     100           100        100      98.4      100        98.6         100            0               100    100      98.5
 Heavy Vehicles      0       14       0      14        0                            0       0             0          0         12        0         12           0            0                 0      0        26
 % Heavy Vehicles    0      2.0       0      1.9       0                            0       0             0          0        1.6        0         1.4          0            0                 0      0       1.5

                                                                                                 Lexington Street
                                                                                             Out        In      Total
                                                                                              757        707      1464
                                                                                               12         14        26
                                                                                              769        721      1490


                                                                                                      7  694         6
                                                                                                      0   14         0
                                                                                                      7  708         6
                                                                                                  Right Thru     Left




                                                                                         Peak Hour Data
                                                      25
                                                       0
                                                      25
                                                   Total




                                                                                                                                                                Out
                                 Gas Station Driveway




                                                               4
                                                               0
                                                               4




                                                                                                                                                                 107

                                                                                                                                                                 107
                                                                                                                                               Right Thru
                                                           Left




                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                        North
                                                                                                                                                                     Wolcott Street
                                                                                                                                                  10

                                                                                                                                                  10
                                                                                                                                                   0
                                               8
                                               0
                                               8




                                                                                          Peak Hour Begins at 05:00 PM
                                                                     0
                                                                     0
                                                                     0
                                                           Right Thru
                                            In




                                                                                                                                                                          In
                                                                                                                                                                           194

                                                                                                                                                                           194



                                                                                          Cars
                                                                                                                                                         2
                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                         2



                                                                                                                                                                              0




                                                                                          Heavy Vehicles
                                                               4
                                                               0
                                                               4




                                                                                                                                               Left
                                   17
                                     0
                                   17




                                                                                                                                                182

                                                                                                                                                182
                                 Out




                                                                                                                                                                                    Total
                                                                                                                                                   0



                                                                                                                                                                                     301

                                                                                                                                                                                     301
                                                                                                                                                                                        0




                                                                                                  Left Thru Right
                                                                                                      8 743   101
                                                                                                      0  12     0
                                                                                                      8 755   101


                                                                                              880        852      1732
                                                                                               14         12        26
                                                                                              894        864      1758
                                                                                             Out        In      Total
                                                                                                 Lexington Street
N/S: Melrose Street                                                                PRECISION                                                             File Name        : 112738 B
E/W: Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                                                D A T A                                                               Site Code        : 10865
                                                                                   INDUSTRIES, LLC
City, State: Newton, MA                                                        P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
                                                                                                                                                         Start Date       : 12/15/2011
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                    Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                              Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                         Page No          :1
                                                                     Groups Printed- Cars - Heavy Vehicles
                                                             Commonwealth Avenue (Route                                                      Commonwealth Avenue (Route
                                    Melrose Street                                                     Melrose Street
                                                                        30)                                                                             30)
                                     From North                                                         From South
                                                                     From East                                                                       From West
            Start Time      Right          Thru      Left      Right      Thru        Left       Right        Thru                   Left      Right      Thru       Left          Int. Total
           07:00 AM             5            4         4           0        178               2             10             2          5             4           205        3           422
           07:15 AM             3            3         8           3        205               1              6             1          5             0           223        1           459
           07:30 AM             3            2         7           2        249               1             10             2          0             1           218        2           497
           07:45 AM             8            2        12           1        260               1             17             3          5             3           203        0           515
               Total           19           11        31           6        892               5             43             8         15             8           849        6          1893

           08:00 AM             7            2         8           2        255               2             13            3           6           3             183        1           485
           08:15 AM             7            4         8           5        230               1             28            5           4           3             201        4           500
           08:30 AM             4            4         7           4        267               0             14            5           5           5             191        4           510
           08:45 AM             3            5         7           2        223               2             20            1           5           1             175        7           451
               Total           21           15        30          13        975               5             75           14          20          12             750       16          1946

      Grand Total            40            26         61        19         1867             10          118             22          35          20         1599           22          3839
        Apprch %            31.5          20.5        48          1         98.5           0.5          67.4           12.6         20          1.2         97.4          1.3
          Total %              1           0.7        1.6       0.5         48.6           0.3           3.1            0.6         0.9         0.5         41.7          0.6
            Cars             39            26         61        17         1811             10          117             20           34         18         1533            20         3706
          % Cars            97.5          100        100       89.5           97           100          99.2           90.9        97.1         90          95.9         90.9          96.5
   Heavy Vehicles              1             0          0         2           56             0             1              2           1           2           66            2          133
 % Heavy Vehicles            2.5             0          0      10.5            3             0           0.8            9.1         2.9         10           4.1          9.1           3.5




                              Melrose Street               Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                        Melrose Street              Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)
                               From North                          From East                                      From South                         From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total     Right Thru      Left App. Total         Right        Thru      Left App. Total    Right Thru      Left App. Total      Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
    07:45 AM         8       2      12       22       1            260         1         262          17         3          5         25        3        203         0      206       515
     08:00 AM        7       2       8       17       2            255         2         259          13         3          6         22        3        183         1      187       485
     08:15 AM        7       4       8       19       5            230         1         236          28         5          4         37        3        201         4      208       500
     08:30 AM        4       4       7       15       4            267         0         271          14         5          5         24        5        191         4      200       510
 Total Volume       26      12      35       73      12          1012          4        1028          72        16         20        108       14        778         9      801      2010
  % App. Total    35.6    16.4    47.9              1.2           98.4       0.4                    66.7      14.8       18.5                 1.7       97.1       1.1
           PHF    .813    .750    .729     .830    .600           .948     .500          .948       .643      .800       .833        .730    .700       .958      .563     .963       .976
           Cars     26      12      35       73      10            979         4          993         71        16         20         107      13        740         8      761      1934
       % Cars      100     100     100      100    83.3           96.7      100          96.6       98.6       100        100        99.1    92.9       95.1      88.9     95.0       96.2
 Heavy Vehicles      0       0       0        0       2              33        0           35          1         0          0            1      1         38         1       40         76
 % Heavy Vehicles    0       0       0        0    16.7             3.3        0           3.4       1.4         0          0          0.9    7.1         4.9     11.1       5.0       3.8
N/S: Melrose Street                                                               PRECISION                                                             File Name      : 112738 B
E/W: Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                                               D A T A                                                               Site Code      : 10865
                                                                                  INDUSTRIES, LLC
City, State: Newton, MA                                                       P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
                                                                                                                                                        Start Date     : 12/15/2011
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                   Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                             Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                        Page No        :1
                                                                             Groups Printed- Cars
                                                             Commonwealth Avenue (Route                                                     Commonwealth Avenue (Route
                                    Melrose Street                                                    Melrose Street
                                                                        30)                                                                            30)
                                     From North                                                        From South
                                                                     From East                                                                      From West
            Start Time      Right          Thru       Left     Right      Thru       Left       Right        Thru                   Left      Right      Thru       Left       Int. Total
           07:00 AM             5            4         4           0        174              2             10             1          5             3          200       2          410
           07:15 AM             2            3         8           3        196              1              6             1          4             0          211       1          436
           07:30 AM             3            2         7           2        241              1             10             1          0             1          212       2          482
           07:45 AM             8            2        12           1        252              1             17             3          5             3          198       0          502
               Total           18           11        31           6        863              5             43             6         14             7          821       5         1830

           08:00 AM             7            2         8           2        249              2             13            3           6           3            176       1          472
           08:15 AM             7            4         8           3        221              1             27            5           4           3            186       4          473
           08:30 AM             4            4         7           4        257              0             14            5           5           4            180       3          487
           08:45 AM             3            5         7           2        221              2             20            1           5           1            170       7          444
               Total           21           15        30          11        948              5             74           14          20          11            712      15         1876

        Grand Total           39           26         61         17       1811             10          117             20          34          18         1533         20         3706
          Apprch %            31          20.6       48.4        0.9       98.5            0.5         68.4           11.7        19.9         1.1         97.6        1.3
           Total %            1.1          0.7        1.6        0.5       48.9            0.3          3.2            0.5         0.9         0.5         41.4        0.5




                              Melrose Street               Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                       Melrose Street              Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)
                               From North                          From East                                     From South                         From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total     Right Thru      Left App. Total        Right        Thru      Left App. Total    Right Thru      Left App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
    07:45 AM         8       2      12       22       1            252        1         254          17         3          5         25        3        198        0     201      502
    08:00 AM         7       2       8       17       2            249        2         253          13         3          6         22        3        176        1     180      472
    08:15 AM         7       4       8       19       3            221        1         225          27         5          4         36        3        186        4     193      473
    08:30 AM         4       4       7       15       4            257        0         261          14         5          5         24        4        180        3     187      487
 Total Volume      26       12      35       73      10            979        4         993          71        16         20        107       13        740        8     761     1934
 % App. Total    35.6     16.4    47.9                1           98.6      0.4                    66.4        15       18.7                 1.7       97.2      1.1
          PHF    .813     .750    .729     .830    .625           .952     .500         .951       .657      .800       .833        .743    .813       .934     .500    .947      .963
N/S: Melrose Street                                                               PRECISION                                                              File Name     : 112738 B
E/W: Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                                               D A T A                                                                Site Code     : 10865
                                                                                  INDUSTRIES, LLC
City, State: Newton, MA                                                       P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
                                                                                                                                                         Start Date    : 12/15/2011
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                   Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                             Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                         Page No       :1
                                                                        Groups Printed- Heavy Vehicles
                                                             Commonwealth Avenue (Route                                                      Commonwealth Avenue (Route
                                    Melrose Street                                                    Melrose Street
                                                                        30)                                                                             30)
                                     From North                                                        From South
                                                                     From East                                                                       From West
            Start Time      Right          Thru      Left      Right      Thru        Left      Right        Thru                    Left      Right      Thru       Left         Int. Total
           07:00 AM             0             0        0           0          4              0              0              1           0            1           5       1               12
           07:15 AM             1             0        0           0          9              0              0              0           1            0          12       0               23
           07:30 AM             0             0        0           0          8              0              0              1           0            0           6       0               15
           07:45 AM             0             0        0           0          8              0              0              0           0            0           5       0               13
               Total            1             0        0           0         29              0              0              2           1            1          28       1               63

           08:00 AM             0             0        0           0          6              0              0              0           0            0           7       0               13
           08:15 AM             0             0        0           2          9              0              1              0           0            0          15       0               27
           08:30 AM             0             0        0           0         10              0              0              0           0            1          11       1               23
           08:45 AM             0             0        0           0          2              0              0              0           0            0           5       0                7
               Total            0             0        0           2         27              0              1              0           0            1          38       1               70

        Grand Total             1             0        0           2        56               0               1             2           1          2          66          2            133
          Apprch %           100              0        0         3.4       96.6              0             25            50          25         2.9        94.3        2.9
           Total %            0.8             0        0         1.5       42.1              0             0.8           1.5         0.8        1.5        49.6        1.5




                              Melrose Street               Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                        Melrose Street              Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)
                               From North                          From East                                      From South                         From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total     Right Thru      Left App. Total        Right         Thru      Left App. Total    Right Thru      Left App. Total     Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
    07:45 AM         0       0       0        0       0              8        0            8          0         0           0           0       0          5       0          5         13
    08:00 AM         0       0       0        0       0              6        0            6          0         0           0           0       0          7       0          7         13
    08:15 AM         0       0       0        0       2              9        0           11          1         0           0           1       0         15       0         15         27
    08:30 AM         0       0       0        0       0             10        0           10          0         0           0           0       1         11       1         13         23
 Total Volume        0       0       0        0       2             33        0           35          1         0           0           1       1         38       1         40         76
 % App. Total        0       0       0              5.7           94.3        0                     100         0           0                 2.5         95     2.5
          PHF    .000     .000    .000     .000    .250           .825     .000         .795       .250      .000        .000        .250    .250       .633    .250    .667         .704
N/S: Melrose Street                                                                PRECISION                                                             File Name        : 112738 B
E/W: Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                                                D A T A                                                               Site Code        : 10865
                                                                                   INDUSTRIES, LLC
City, State: Newton, MA                                                         P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
                                                                                                                                                         Start Date       : 12/15/2011
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                     Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                               Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                         Page No          :1
                                                                      Groups Printed- Peds and Bicycles
                              Melrose Street             Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)              Melrose Street                            Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)
                               From North                        From East                            From South                                       From West
       Start Time    Right     Thru       Left   Peds     Right  Thru      Left    Peds     Right     Thru       Left              Peds         Right  Thru      Left    Peds        Int. Total
      07:00 AM           0        0         0        0        0        0           0         5            0         0        0          2          0        0       0        1               8
      07:15 AM           0        0         0        1        0        1           0         8            0         0        0          3          0        0       0        0              13
      07:30 AM           1        0         0        3        0        1           0         3            0         0        0          1          0        0       0        0               9
      07:45 AM           0        0         0        0        0        0           0         1            0         0        0          0          0        0       0        1               2
          Total          1        0         0        4        0        2           0        17            0         0        0          6          0        0       0        2              32

      08:00 AM           0        0         0        2        0        0           0         4            0         0        0          0          0        0       0        1               7
      08:15 AM           1        0         0        0        0        0           0         6            0         0        0          2          0        1       0        3              13
      08:30 AM           0        0         0        0        0        0           0         0            0         0        0          1          0        0       0        0               1
      08:45 AM           0        0         0        0        0        0           0         3            0         0        0          2          0        0       0        1               6
          Total          1        0         0        2        0        0           0        13            0         0        0          5          0        1       0        5              27

   Grand Total           2        0         0       6         0        2           0       30             0         0        0      11             0       1        0        7              59
     Apprch %          25         0         0     75          0      6.2           0      93.8            0         0        0     100             0    12.5        0     87.5
      Total %          3.4        0         0    10.2         0      3.4           0      50.8            0         0        0     18.6            0     1.7        0     11.9




                            Melrose Street                 Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                        Melrose Street                 Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)
                             From North                            From East                                       From South                             From West
   Start Time Right Thru         Left Peds App. Total Right Thru       Left Peds App. Total       Right       Thru    Left Peds   App. Total   Right Thru    Left Peds App. Total     Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:00 AM
  07:00 AM      0       0     0     0        0     0    0  0    5                           5    0    0    0    2                        2  0    0    0    1                     1          8
  07:15 AM      0       0     0     1        1     0    1       8                           9    0    0    0    3                        3  0    0    0    0                     0         13
  07:30 AM      1                   3        4     0    1  0    3                           4    0    0    0    1                        1  0    0    0    0                     0          9
  07:45 AM      0       0     0     0        0     0    0  0    1                           1    0    0    0    0                        0  0    0    0    1                     1          2
 Total Volume   1       0     0     4        5     0    2  0   17                          19    0    0    0    6                        6  0    0    0    2                     2         32
 % App. Total  20       0     0    80              0 10.5  0 89.5                                0    0    0 100                            0    0    0 100
        PHF .250 .000 .000 .333          .313 .000 .500 .000 .531                        .528 .000 .000 .000 .500                   .500 .000 .000 .000 .500                .500        .615
N/S: Melrose Street                                                                            PRECISION                                                                       File Name              : 112738 B
E/W: Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                                                            D A T A                                                                         Site Code              : 10865
                                                                                               INDUSTRIES, LLC
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                    P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
                                                                                                                                                                               Start Date             : 12/15/2011
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                          Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                               Page No                :1


                              Melrose Street               Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                                  Melrose Street                 Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)
                               From North                          From East                                                From South                            From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total     Right Thru      Left App. Total                     Right      Thru      Left App. Total       Right Thru      Left App. Total                    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
    07:45 AM         8       2      12       22       1                        260         1         262          17         3        5         25           3             203                    0    206       515
     08:00 AM        7       2       8       17       2                        255         2         259          13         3        6         22           3             183                    1    187       485
     08:15 AM        7       4       8       19       5                        230         1         236          28         5        4         37           3             201                    4    208       500
     08:30 AM        4       4       7       15       4                        267         0         271          14         5        5         24           5             191                    4    200       510
 Total Volume       26      12      35       73      12                      1012          4        1028          72        16       20        108          14             778                    9    801      2010
  % App. Total    35.6    16.4    47.9              1.2                       98.4       0.4                    66.7      14.8     18.5                    1.7            97.1                  1.1
           PHF    .813    .750    .729     .830    .600                       .948     .500          .948       .643      .800     .833        .730       .700            .958                 .563   .963       .976
           Cars     26      12      35       73      10                        979         4          993         71        16       20         107         13             740                    8    761      1934
       % Cars      100     100     100      100    83.3                       96.7      100          96.6       98.6       100      100        99.1       92.9            95.1                 88.9   95.0       96.2
 Heavy Vehicles      0       0       0        0       2                          33        0           35          1         0        0            1         1              38                    1     40         76
 % Heavy Vehicles    0       0       0        0    16.7                         3.3        0           3.4       1.4         0        0          0.9       7.1              4.9                11.1     5.0       3.8

                                                                                                Melrose Street
                                                                                           Out        In       Total
                                                                                             34         73      107
                                                                                               3         0         3
                                                                                             37         73      110


                                                                                                  26   12        35
                                                                                                   0     0         0
                                                                                                  26   12        35
                                                                                               Right Thru      Left




                                                                                      Peak Hour Data
                               Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)




                                                                                                                                                              Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)
                                                     1786

                                                     1859
                                                        73
                                                     Total




                                                                                                                                                                 Out
                                                                    8
                                                                    1
                                                                    9




                                                                                                                                                                  885

                                                                                                                                                                  846
                                                                                                                                             Right Thru
                                                                Left




                                                                                                                                                                   39
                                                                                                      North
                                                                                                                                                12 1012

                                                                                                                                                10
                                                                                                                                                 2
                                              761
                                               40
                                              801




                                                                                        Peak Hour Begins at 07:45 AM
                                                                       740
                                                                        38
                                                                       778
                                                                Right Thru
                                             In




                                                                                                                                                                          1028


                                                                                                                                                                           In
                                                                                                                                                    979




                                                                                                                                                                            993
                                                                                                                                                     33




                                                                                                                                                                             35




                                                                                        Cars
                                                                                        Heavy Vehicles
                                                                   13
                                                                    1
                                                                   14
                                   1025

                                   1058




                                                                                                                                             Left
                                     33
                                   Out




                                                                                                                                                                                   Total
                                                                                                                                                                                   1913

                                                                                                                                                                                   1839
                                                                                                                                                 4
                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                 4



                                                                                                                                                                                      74




                                                                                               Left Thru Right
                                                                                                 20   16    71
                                                                                                   0    0    1
                                                                                                 20   16    72


                                                                                             29        107      136
                                                                                               1         1         2
                                                                                             30        108      138
                                                                                           Out        In       Total
                                                                                                Melrose Street
N/S: Melrose Street                                                                PRECISION                                                           File Name         : 112738 BB
E/W: Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                                                D A T A                                                             Site Code         : 10865
                                                                                   INDUSTRIES, LLC
City, State: Newton, MA                                                        P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
                                                                                                                                                       Start Date        : 12/15/2011
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                    Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                              Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                       Page No           :1
                                                                     Groups Printed- Cars - Heavy Vehicles
                                                             Commonwealth Avenue (Route                                                      Commonwealth Avenue (Route
                                    Melrose Street                                                     Melrose Street
                                                                        30)                                                                             30)
                                     From North                                                         From South
                                                                     From East                                                                       From West
            Start Time      Right          Thru       Left     Right      Thru        Left       Right        Thru                   Left      Right      Thru       Left        Int. Total
           04:00 PM             4             2        4           1        210               2             20            5          11           2           208        3           472
           04:15 PM             5             2        5           4        218               1             14            9           7           2           178        3           448
           04:30 PM             2             0        8           4        207               3             24            3           8           3           179        4           445
           04:45 PM             1             2        9           3        210               0             15           11           4           3           213       10           481
               Total           12             6       26          12        845               6             73           28          30          10           778       20          1846

           05:00 PM             4            5         1           3        232               1           31              5           7           2           224         2          517
           05:15 PM             3            2         3           9        222               3           27              9           3           1           199         8          489
           05:30 PM             4            2        11          13        205               2           26              6          12           2           226         7          516
           05:45 PM             2            1         5          10        190               3           25              9           4           6           239         6          500
               Total           13           10        20          35        849               9          109             29          26          11           888        23         2022

      Grand Total            25             16        46         47        1694             15          182             57          56          21       1666            43         3868
        Apprch %            28.7          18.4       52.9        2.7        96.5           0.9          61.7           19.3         19          1.2       96.3          2.5
          Total %            0.6           0.4        1.2        1.2        43.8           0.4           4.7            1.5         1.4         0.5       43.1          1.1
            Cars             25             16         46        47        1665             15          179             57          55          19       1635            43         3802
          % Cars            100           100        100        100         98.3           100          98.4           100         98.2        90.5       98.1          100          98.3
   Heavy Vehicles              0             0          0          0          29             0             3              0           1           2         31            0           66
 % Heavy Vehicles              0             0          0          0         1.7             0           1.6              0         1.8         9.5        1.9            0           1.7




                              Melrose Street               Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                        Melrose Street              Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)
                               From North                          From East                                      From South                         From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total     Right Thru      Left App. Total         Right        Thru      Left App. Total    Right Thru      Left App. Total    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
    05:00 PM         4       5       1       10        3           232        1          236          31         5          7         43        2      224          2     228       517
     05:15 PM        3       2       3        8        9           222        3          234           27        9          3         39        1      199          8     208       489
     05:30 PM        4       2      11       17      13            205        2          220           26        6         12         44        2      226          7     235       516
     05:45 PM        2       1       5        8       10           190        3          203           25        9          4         38        6      239          6     251       500
 Total Volume       13      10      20       43       35           849        9          893         109        29         26        164       11      888         23     922      2022
  % App. Total    30.2    23.3    46.5               3.9          95.1        1                     66.5      17.7       15.9                 1.2     96.3        2.5
           PHF    .813    .500    .455     .632    .673           .915     .750          .946       .879      .806       .542        .932    .458     .929      .719     .918       .978
           Cars     13      10      20       43       35           839        9           883        106        29         26         161      11      877        23      911      1998
       % Cars      100     100     100      100     100           98.8      100          98.9       97.2       100        100        98.2     100     98.8       100     98.8       98.8
 Heavy Vehicles      0       0       0        0        0             10       0            10           3        0          0            3      0        11         0      11         24
 % Heavy Vehicles    0       0       0        0        0            1.2       0            1.1        2.8        0          0          1.8      0       1.2         0      1.2       1.2
N/S: Melrose Street                                                               PRECISION                                                             File Name      : 112738 BB
E/W: Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                                               D A T A                                                               Site Code      : 10865
                                                                                  INDUSTRIES, LLC
City, State: Newton, MA                                                       P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
                                                                                                                                                        Start Date     : 12/15/2011
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                   Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                             Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                        Page No        :1
                                                                             Groups Printed- Cars
                                                             Commonwealth Avenue (Route                                                     Commonwealth Avenue (Route
                                    Melrose Street                                                    Melrose Street
                                                                        30)                                                                            30)
                                     From North                                                        From South
                                                                     From East                                                                      From West
            Start Time      Right          Thru       Left     Right      Thru       Left       Right        Thru                   Left      Right      Thru       Left       Int. Total
           04:00 PM             4             2        4           1        208              2             20            5          10             2          199       3          460
           04:15 PM             5             2        5           4        213              1             14            9           7             1          175       3          439
           04:30 PM             2             0        8           4        203              3             24            3           8             2          173       4          434
           04:45 PM             1             2        9           3        202              0             15           11           4             3          211      10          471
               Total           12             6       26          12        826              6             73           28          29             8          758      20         1804

           05:00 PM             4            5         1           3        229              1           31              5           7           2            222       2          512
           05:15 PM             3            2         3           9        221              3           26              9           3           1            198       8          486
           05:30 PM             4            2        11          13        203              2           25              6          12           2            222       7          509
           05:45 PM             2            1         5          10        186              3           24              9           4           6            235       6          491
               Total           13           10        20          35        839              9          106             29          26          11            877      23         1998

        Grand Total          25             16        46         47       1665             15          179             57          55          19         1635         43         3802
          Apprch %          28.7          18.4       52.9        2.7       96.4            0.9         61.5           19.6        18.9         1.1         96.3        2.5
           Total %           0.7           0.4        1.2        1.2       43.8            0.4          4.7            1.5         1.4         0.5          43         1.1




                              Melrose Street               Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                       Melrose Street              Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)
                               From North                          From East                                     From South                         From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total     Right Thru      Left App. Total        Right        Thru      Left App. Total    Right Thru      Left App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
    05:00 PM         4       5       1       10       3            229        1         233          31         5          7         43        2        222        2     226      512
    05:15 PM         3       2       3        8       9            221        3         233          26         9          3         38        1        198        8     207      486
    05:30 PM         4       2      11       17      13            203        2         218          25         6         12         43        2        222        7     231      509
    05:45 PM         2       1       5        8      10            186        3         199          24         9          4         37        6        235        6     247      491
 Total Volume      13       10      20       43      35            839        9         883         106        29         26        161       11        877       23     911     1998
 % App. Total    30.2     23.3    46.5                4             95        1                    65.8        18       16.1                 1.2       96.3      2.5
          PHF    .813     .500    .455     .632    .673           .916     .750         .947       .855      .806       .542        .936    .458       .933     .719    .922      .976
N/S: Melrose Street                                                               PRECISION                                                              File Name     : 112738 BB
E/W: Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                                               D A T A                                                                Site Code     : 10865
                                                                                  INDUSTRIES, LLC
City, State: Newton, MA                                                       P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
                                                                                                                                                         Start Date    : 12/15/2011
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                   Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                             Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                         Page No       :1
                                                                        Groups Printed- Heavy Vehicles
                                                             Commonwealth Avenue (Route                                                      Commonwealth Avenue (Route
                                    Melrose Street                                                    Melrose Street
                                                                        30)                                                                             30)
                                     From North                                                        From South
                                                                     From East                                                                       From West
            Start Time      Right          Thru      Left      Right      Thru        Left      Right        Thru                    Left      Right      Thru       Left        Int. Total
           04:00 PM             0             0        0           0          2              0              0              0           1            0           9       0              12
           04:15 PM             0             0        0           0          5              0              0              0           0            1           3       0               9
           04:30 PM             0             0        0           0          4              0              0              0           0            1           6       0              11
           04:45 PM             0             0        0           0          8              0              0              0           0            0           2       0              10
               Total            0             0        0           0         19              0              0              0           1            2          20       0              42

           05:00 PM             0             0        0           0          3              0              0              0           0            0           2       0               5
           05:15 PM             0             0        0           0          1              0              1              0           0            0           1       0               3
           05:30 PM             0             0        0           0          2              0              1              0           0            0           4       0               7
           05:45 PM             0             0        0           0          4              0              1              0           0            0           4       0               9
               Total            0             0        0           0         10              0              3              0           0            0          11       0              24

        Grand Total             0             0        0           0        29               0               3             0           1          2         31          0              66
          Apprch %              0             0        0           0       100               0             75              0         25         6.1        93.9         0
           Total %              0             0        0           0       43.9              0             4.5             0         1.5          3         47          0




                              Melrose Street               Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                        Melrose Street              Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)
                               From North                          From East                                      From South                         From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total     Right Thru      Left App. Total        Right         Thru      Left App. Total    Right Thru      Left App. Total    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:00 PM
    04:00 PM         0       0       0        0       0              2        0            2          0         0           1           1       0          9       0         9         12
    04:15 PM         0       0       0        0       0              5        0            5          0         0           0           0       1          3       0         4          9
    04:30 PM         0       0       0        0       0              4        0            4          0         0           0           0       1          6       0         7         11
    04:45 PM         0       0       0        0       0              8        0            8          0         0           0           0       0          2       0         2         10
 Total Volume        0       0       0        0       0             19        0           19          0         0           1           1       2         20       0        22         42
 % App. Total        0       0       0                0            100        0                       0         0         100                 9.1       90.9       0
          PHF    .000     .000    .000     .000    .000           .594     .000         .594       .000      .000        .250        .250    .500       .556    .000    .611        .875
N/S: Melrose Street                                                                PRECISION                                                             File Name        : 112738 BB
E/W: Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                                                D A T A                                                               Site Code        : 10865
                                                                                   INDUSTRIES, LLC
City, State: Newton, MA                                                         P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
                                                                                                                                                         Start Date       : 12/15/2011
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                     Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                               Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                         Page No          :1
                                                                      Groups Printed- Peds and Bicycles
                              Melrose Street             Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)              Melrose Street                            Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)
                               From North                        From East                            From South                                       From West
       Start Time    Right     Thru       Left   Peds     Right  Thru      Left    Peds     Right     Thru       Left              Peds         Right  Thru      Left    Peds        Int. Total
      04:00 PM           0        0         0        1        0        0           0          2           0         0        0          0          0        0       0        0               3
      04:15 PM           0        0         0        2        0        0           0          1           0         0        0          0          0        0       0        0               3
      04:30 PM           0        0         0        1        0        0           0          2           0         0        0          0          0        0       0        1               4
      04:45 PM           0        0         0        1        0        0           0          4           0         0        0          3          0        0       0        3              11
          Total          0        0         0        5        0        0           0          9           0         0        0          3          0        0       0        4              21

      05:00 PM           0        0         0        1        0        0           0          0           0         0        0          0          0        1       0        0               2
      05:15 PM           0        0         0        0        0        0           0          4           0         0        0          0          0        0       0        0               4
      05:30 PM           0        0         0        0        0        0           0          1           0         0        0          0          0        0       0        0               1
      05:45 PM           0        0         0        1        0        0           0          3           0         0        0          0          0        1       0        0               5
          Total          0        0         0        2        0        0           0          8           0         0        0          0          0        2       0        0              12

   Grand Total           0        0         0       7         0        0           0       17             0         0        0         3           0       2        0        4              33
     Apprch %            0        0         0    100          0        0           0      100             0         0        0      100            0    33.3        0     66.7
      Total %            0        0         0    21.2         0        0           0      51.5            0         0        0       9.1           0     6.1        0     12.1




                            Melrose Street                 Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                        Melrose Street                 Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)
                             From North                            From East                                       From South                             From West
   Start Time Right Thru         Left Peds App. Total Right Thru       Left Peds App. Total       Right       Thru    Left Peds   App. Total   Right Thru    Left Peds App. Total     Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:00 PM
  04:00 PM      0       0     0     1        1     0  0    0    2                            2   0    0    0    0                        0  0    0    0    0                     0          3
  04:15 PM      0       0     0     2        2     0  0    0    1                            1   0    0    0    0                        0  0    0    0    0                     0          3
  04:30 PM      0       0     0     1        1     0  0    0    2                            2   0    0    0    0                        0  0    0    0    1                     1          4
  04:45 PM      0       0     0     1        1     0  0    0    4                            4   0    0    0    3                        3  0    0    0    3                     3         11
 Total Volume   0       0     0     5        5     0  0    0    9                            9   0    0    0    3                        3  0    0    0    4                     4         21
 % App. Total   0       0     0 100                0  0    0 100                                 0    0    0 100                            0    0    0 100
        PHF .000 .000 .000 .625          .625 .000 .000 .000 .563                        .563 .000 .000 .000 .250                   .250 .000 .000 .000 .333                .333        .477
N/S: Melrose Street                                                                          PRECISION                                                                        File Name               : 112738 BB
E/W: Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                                                          D A T A                                                                          Site Code               : 10865
                                                                                             INDUSTRIES, LLC
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                   P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
                                                                                                                                                                              Start Date              : 12/15/2011
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                               Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                         Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                              Page No                 :1


                              Melrose Street               Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                                 Melrose Street                 Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)
                               From North                          From East                                               From South                            From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total     Right Thru      Left App. Total                    Right      Thru      Left App. Total       Right Thru      Left App. Total                     Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
    05:00 PM         4       5       1       10        3                      232        1          236          31         5        7         43           2             224                     2    228       517
     05:15 PM        3       2       3        8        9                      222        3          234           27        9        3         39           1             199                     8    208       489
     05:30 PM        4       2      11       17      13                       205        2          220           26        6       12         44           2             226                     7    235       516
     05:45 PM        2       1       5        8       10                      190        3          203           25        9        4         38           6             239                     6    251       500
 Total Volume       13      10      20       43       35                      849        9          893         109        29       26        164          11             888                    23    922      2022
  % App. Total    30.2    23.3    46.5               3.9                     95.1        1                     66.5      17.7     15.9                    1.2            96.3                   2.5
           PHF    .813    .500    .455     .632    .673                      .915     .750          .946       .879      .806     .542        .932       .458            .929                 .719    .918       .978
           Cars     13      10      20       43       35                      839        9           883        106        29       26         161         11             877                   23     911      1998
       % Cars      100     100     100      100     100                      98.8      100          98.9       97.2       100      100        98.2        100            98.8                  100    98.8       98.8
 Heavy Vehicles      0       0       0        0        0                        10       0            10           3        0        0            3         0               11                    0     11         24
 % Heavy Vehicles    0       0       0        0        0                       1.2       0            1.1        2.8        0        0          1.8         0              1.2                    0     1.2       1.2

                                                                                               Melrose Street
                                                                                          Out        In       Total
                                                                                            87         43      130
                                                                                              0         0         0
                                                                                            87         43      130


                                                                                                13   10         20
                                                                                                 0     0          0
                                                                                                13   10         20
                                                                                             Right Thru       Left




                                                                                     Peak Hour Data
                               Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)




                                                                                                                                                             Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)
                                                     1789

                                                     1810
                                                        21
                                                     Total




                                                                                                                                                                1017

                                                                                                                                                                1003
                                                                                                                                                                Out
                                                                  23
                                                                    0
                                                                  23




                                                                                                                                            Right Thru
                                                                Left




                                                                                                                                                                  14
                                                                                                     North
                                                                                                                                               35

                                                                                                                                               35
                                                                                                                                                0
                                              911
                                               11
                                              922




                                                                                       Peak Hour Begins at 05:00 PM
                                                                       877
                                                                        11
                                                                       888
                                                                Right Thru
                                             In




                                                                                                                                                                          In
                                                                                                                                                   849

                                                                                                                                                   839


                                                                                                                                                                           893

                                                                                                                                                                           883
                                                                                                                                                    10




                                                                                                                                                                            10




                                                                                       Cars
                                                                                       Heavy Vehicles
                                                                   11
                                                                    0
                                                                   11




                                                                                                                                            Left
                                    878
                                     10
                                    888
                                   Out




                                                                                                                                                                                  Total
                                                                                                                                                                                  1910

                                                                                                                                                                                  1886
                                                                                                                                                9
                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                9



                                                                                                                                                                                     24




                                                                                             Left Thru Right
                                                                                               26   29   106
                                                                                                 0    0    3
                                                                                               26   29   109


                                                                                            30        161      191
                                                                                              0         3         3
                                                                                            30        164      194
                                                                                          Out        In       Total
                                                                                               Melrose Street
N/S: Lexington Street/ Auburn Street                                                    PRECISION                                                                 File Name            : 112738 C
E/W: Driveway/ Auburn Street                                                            D A T A                                                                   Site Code            : 10865
                                                                                        INDUSTRIES, LLC
City, State: Methuen, MA                                                            P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
                                                                                                                                                                  Start Date           : 12/15/2011
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                         Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                   Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                  Page No              :1
                                                                            Groups Printed- Cars - Heavy Vehicles
                               Lexington Street                        Driveway                         Auburn Street                                  Auburn Street
                                 From North                            From East                         From South                                     From West
           Start Time      Right       Thru         Left         Right      Thru        Left      Right       Thru                 Left       Right     Thru        Left            U-Turn        Int. Total
          07:00 AM             8         51           0             1          0             0             1            79         15           21            1             9            1             187
          07:15 AM            10         72           0             0          0             0             0           102         25           32            1            19            0             261
          07:30 AM            18         59           1             0          0             0             0            80         34           24            0            23            0             239
          07:45 AM            15         84           1             1          0             0             0            77         38           18            2            11            0             247
              Total           51        266           2             2          0             0             1           338        112           95            4            62            1             934

          08:00 AM           34          83           0             0          0             0             0           116         50          30             0            21            1            335
          08:15 AM           23          79           2             2          0             0             0            91         37          26             0            21            0            281
          08:30 AM           27          72           2             2          1             0             0           106         45          32             1            13            2            303
          08:45 AM           23          74           0             0          0             0             2            85         35          26             0            18            0            263
              Total         107         308           4             4          1             0             2           398        167         114             1            73            3           1182

      Grand Total          158         574           6              6          1             0           3             736       279          209          5             135            4            2116
        Apprch %           21.4        77.8        0.8           85.7       14.3             0         0.3             72.3      27.4         59.2       1.4             38.2         1.1
          Total %           7.5        27.1        0.3            0.3          0             0         0.1             34.8      13.2          9.9       0.2               6.4        0.2
            Cars           148          564          6              6          1             0           3             720       275          203          5              133           4            2068
          % Cars           93.7        98.3        100           100        100              0        100              97.8      98.6         97.1       100             98.5         100             97.7
   Heavy Vehicles            10          10          0              0          0             0           0              16          4            6         0                 2          0              48
  % Heavy Vehicles          6.3          1.7         0              0          0             0           0              2.2       1.4          2.9         0               1.5          0              2.3




                            Lexington Street                           Driveway                                Auburn Street                              Auburn Street
                              From North                              From East                                 From South                                 From West
      Start Time    Right    Thru     Left App. Total    Right       Thru     Left   App. Total    Right       Thru     Left     App. Total   Right   Thru    Left U-Turn            App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
    08:00 AM        34    83       0     117       0   0                       0             0        0         116        50        166         30       0         21          1         52         335
    08:15 AM         23    79      2     104       2   0                       0             2        0          91        37        128         26       0         21          0         47         281
    08:30 AM         27    72      2     101       2   1                       0             3        0         106        45        151        32        1         13          2         48         303
    08:45 AM         23    74      0       97      0   0                       0             0        2           85       35        122         26       0         18          0         44         263
 Total Volume      107   308       4     419       4   1                       0             5        2         398       167        567       114        1         73          3        191        1182
 % App. Total     25.5 73.5        1              80  20                       0                    0.4        70.2      29.5                 59.7      0.5       38.2        1.6
          PHF .787 .928 .500            .895 .500 .250                      .000        .417      .250         .858      .835       .854      .891    .250        .869      .375        .918         .882
          Cars     102   304       4     410       4   1                       0           5          2         390       164        556       109        1         72          3        185        1156
       % Cars 95.3 98.7         100     97.9     100 100                       0         100       100         98.0      98.2       98.1      95.6     100        98.6       100        96.9         97.8
 Heavy Vehicles       5     4      0        9      0   0                       0           0          0            8         3         11         5       0          1          0           6          26
 % Heavy Vehicles   4.7   1.3      0      2.1      0   0                       0           0          0          2.0       1.8        1.9       4.4       0        1.4          0         3.1         2.2
N/S: Lexington Street/ Auburn Street                                                   PRECISION                                                               File Name          : 112738 C
E/W: Driveway/ Auburn Street                                                           D A T A                                                                 Site Code          : 10865
                                                                                       INDUSTRIES, LLC
City, State: Methuen, MA                                                           P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
                                                                                                                                                               Start Date         : 12/15/2011
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                        Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                  Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                               Page No            :1
                                                                                     Groups Printed- Cars
                               Lexington Street                        Driveway                         Auburn Street                               Auburn Street
                                 From North                            From East                         From South                                  From West
           Start Time      Right       Thru         Left         Right      Thru        Left      Right       Thru              Left       Right     Thru        Left          U-Turn        Int. Total
          07:00 AM             7         49           0             1         0             0             1           78        15           21            1            9           1             183
          07:15 AM             8         71           0             0         0             0             0           97        24           31            1           19           0             251
          07:30 AM            17         58           1             0         0             0             0           80        34           24            0           23           0             237
          07:45 AM            14         82           1             1         0             0             0           75        38           18            2           10           0             241
              Total           46        260           2             2         0             0             1          330       111           94            4           61           1             912

          08:00 AM           33          81           0             0         0             0             0          113        47          28             0           20           1            323
          08:15 AM           23          79           2             2         0             0             0           89        37          24             0           21           0            277
          08:30 AM           26          71           2             2         1             0             0          103        45          31             1           13           2            297
          08:45 AM           20          73           0             0         0             0             2           85        35          26             0           18           0            259
              Total         102         304           4             4         1             0             2          390       164         109             1           72           3           1156

       Grand Total         148         564            6             6         1             0           3            720      275          203          5             133          4            2068
         Apprch %          20.6        78.6         0.8          85.7      14.3             0         0.3            72.1     27.6         58.8       1.4             38.6       1.2
          Total %           7.2        27.3         0.3           0.3         0             0         0.1            34.8     13.3          9.8       0.2              6.4       0.2




                            Lexington Street                          Driveway                                Auburn Street                            Auburn Street
                              From North                             From East                                 From South                               From West
      Start Time    Right    Thru     Left App. Total    Right      Thru     Left   App. Total    Right       Thru     Left   App. Total   Right   Thru    Left U-Turn          App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
   08:00 AM       33      81       0     114       0  0                       0             0       0          113       47       160        28        0         20        1         49         323
    08:15 AM      23      79       2     104       2  0                       0             2       0           89       37       126        24        0         21        0         45         277
    08:30 AM      26      71       2      99       2  1                       0             3       0          103       45       148        31        1         13        2         47         297
    08:45 AM      20      73       0      93       0  0                       0             0       2           85       35       122        26        0         18        0         44         259
 Total Volume    102     304       4     410       4  1                       0             5       2          390      164       556       109        1         72        3        185        1156
 % App. Total   24.9 74.1          1              80 20                       0                   0.4         70.1     29.5                58.9      0.5       38.9      1.6
         PHF .773 .938 .500             .899 .500 .250                     .000        .417      .250         .863     .872      .869      .879    .250        .857     .375       .944         .895
N/S: Lexington Street/ Auburn Street                                                   PRECISION                                                               File Name         : 112738 C
E/W: Driveway/ Auburn Street                                                           D A T A                                                                 Site Code         : 10865
                                                                                       INDUSTRIES, LLC
City, State: Methuen, MA                                                            P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
                                                                                                                                                               Start Date        : 12/15/2011
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                         Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                   Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                               Page No           :1
                                                                               Groups Printed- Heavy Vehicles
                               Lexington Street                        Driveway                        Auburn Street                                 Auburn Street
                                 From North                            From East                        From South                                    From West
           Start Time      Right       Thru         Left         Right      Thru       Left      Right       Thru                Left       Right     Thru        Left        U-Turn        Int. Total
          07:00 AM             1           2          0             0          0            0              0            1          0           0           0           0           0               4
          07:15 AM             2           1          0             0          0            0              0            5          1           1           0           0           0              10
          07:30 AM             1           1          0             0          0            0              0            0          0           0           0           0           0               2
          07:45 AM             1           2          0             0          0            0              0            2          0           0           0           1           0               6
              Total            5           6          0             0          0            0              0            8          1           1           0           1           0              22

          08:00 AM             1           2          0             0          0            0              0            3          3           2           0           1           0              12
          08:15 AM             0           0          0             0          0            0              0            2          0           2           0           0           0               4
          08:30 AM             1           1          0             0          0            0              0            3          0           1           0           0           0               6
          08:45 AM             3           1          0             0          0            0              0            0          0           0           0           0           0               4
              Total            5           4          0             0          0            0              0            8          3           5           0           1           0              26

       Grand Total          10          10            0             0          0            0              0            16        4            6           0            2          0              48
         Apprch %           50          50            0             0          0            0              0            80       20          75            0          25           0
          Total %          20.8        20.8           0             0          0            0              0          33.3      8.3         12.5           0          4.2          0




                            Lexington Street                          Driveway                                 Auburn Street                            Auburn Street
                              From North                             From East                                  From South                               From West
      Start Time    Right    Thru     Left App. Total    Right      Thru     Left   App. Total     Right       Thru     Left   App. Total   Right   Thru    Left U-Turn        App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:15 AM
   07:15 AM        2       1       0        3      0 0                         0            0        0            5        1          6        1       0          0       0            1          10
    07:30 AM       1       1       0        2      0 0                         0            0        0            0        0          0        0       0          0       0            0           2
    07:45 AM       1       2       0        3      0 0                         0            0        0            2        0          2        0       0          1       0            1           6
    08:00 AM       1       2       0        3      0 0                         0            0        0            3        3          6        2       0          1       0            3          12
 Total Volume      5       6       0      11       0 0                         0            0        0           10        4         14        3       0          2       0            5          30
 % App. Total   45.5 54.5          0               0 0                         0                     0         71.4     28.6                  60       0         40       0
         PHF .625 .750 .000             .917 .000 .000                      .000        .000      .000         .500     .333      .583      .375    .000       .500    .000       .417         .625
N/S: Lexington Street/ Auburn Street                                              PRECISION                                                                 File Name        : 112738 C
E/W: Driveway/ Auburn Street                                                      D A T A                                                                   Site Code        : 10865
                                                                                  INDUSTRIES, LLC
City, State: Methuen, MA                                                       P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
                                                                                                                                                            Start Date       : 12/15/2011
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                    Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                              Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                            Page No          :1
                                                                        Groups Printed- Peds and Bicycles
                             Lexington Street                       Driveway                           Auburn Street                                      Auburn Street
                               From North                          From East                            From South                                         From West
       Start Time    Right     Thru       Left   Peds     Right    Thru      Left    Peds     Right     Thru      Left              Peds         Right     Thru      Left    Peds         Int. Total
      07:00 AM           0        0         0       1         0       0           0            0           0         0        0          0          0         0        0        6                 7
      07:15 AM           0        0         0       2         0       0           0            1           0         0        0          1          0         0        0        5                 9
      07:30 AM           0        0         0       1         0       0           0            2           0         0        0          3          0         0        0        6                12
      07:45 AM           0        0         0       2         0       0           0            0           0         0        0          0          0         0        0        2                 4
          Total          0        0         0       6         0       0           0            3           0         0        0          4          0         0        0       19                32

      08:00 AM           0        0         0       2         0       0           0            0           0         0        0          0          0         0        0        5                 7
      08:15 AM           0        0         0       2         0       0           0            0           0         0        0          0          0         0        0        7                 9
      08:30 AM           0        0         0       2         0       0           0            1           0         0        0          0          0         0        0        4                 7
      08:45 AM           0        0         0       3         0       0           0            1           0         0        0          0          0         0        0        4                 8
          Total          0        0         0       9         0       0           0            2           0         0        0          0          0         0        0       20                31

   Grand Total           0        0         0     15          0       0           0          5             0         0        0         4           0         0        0      39                 63
     Apprch %            0        0         0    100          0       0           0       100              0         0        0      100            0         0        0     100
      Total %            0        0         0    23.8         0       0           0        7.9             0         0        0       6.3           0         0        0     61.9




                           Lexington Street                        Driveway                                       Auburn Street                             Auburn Street
                             From North                            From East                                        From South                                From West
   Start Time Right Thru         Left Peds App. Total Right   Thru    Left Peds       App. Total   Right       Thru    Left Peds   App. Total   Right    Thru    Left Peds   App. Total    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:00 AM
  07:00 AM      0       0     0     1        1     0  0    0    0                            0  0    0    0    0                          0  0    0    0    6                      6             7
  07:15 AM      0       0     0     2        2     0  0    0    1                            1  0    0    0    1                          1  0    0    0    5                      5             9
  07:30 AM      0       0     0     1        1     0  0    0    2                            2  0    0    0    3                          3  0    0    0    6                      6            12
  07:45 AM      0       0     0     2        2     0  0    0    0                            0  0    0    0    0                          0  0    0    0    2                      2             4
 Total Volume   0       0     0     6        6     0  0    0    3                            3  0    0    0    4                          4  0    0    0   19                     19            32
 % App. Total   0       0     0 100                0  0    0 100                                0    0    0 100                              0    0    0 100
        PHF .000 .000 .000 .750          .750 .000 .000 .000 .375                       .375 .000 .000 .000 .333                     .333 .000 .000 .000 .792                  .792          .667
N/S: Lexington Street/ Auburn Street                                                               PRECISION                                                                  File Name            : 112738 C
E/W: Driveway/ Auburn Street                                                                       D A T A                                                                    Site Code            : 10865
                                                                                                   INDUSTRIES, LLC
City, State: Methuen, MA                                                                       P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
                                                                                                                                                                              Start Date           : 12/15/2011
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                    Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                              Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                              Page No              :1


                            Lexington Street                                      Driveway                               Auburn Street                                    Auburn Street
                              From North                                         From East                                From South                                       From West
      Start Time    Right    Thru     Left App. Total    Right                  Thru     Left   App. Total      Right    Thru     Left     App. Total       Right     Thru    Left U-Turn        App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
    08:00 AM        34    83       0     117       0   0                                  0             0          0      116        50        166             30         0     21           1        52         335
    08:15 AM         23    79      2     104       2   0                                  0             2          0       91        37        128             26         0     21           0        47         281
    08:30 AM         27    72      2     101       2   1                                  0             3          0      106        45        151            32          1     13           2        48         303
    08:45 AM         23    74      0       97      0   0                                  0             0          2        85       35        122             26         0     18           0        44         263
 Total Volume      107   308       4     419       4   1                                  0             5          2      398       167        567           114          1     73           3       191        1182
 % App. Total     25.5 73.5        1              80  20                                  0                      0.4     70.2      29.5                     59.7        0.5   38.2         1.6
          PHF .787 .928 .500            .895 .500 .250                                 .000        .417        .250      .858      .835       .854          .891      .250    .869       .375       .918         .882
          Cars     102   304       4     410       4   1                                  0           5            2      390       164        556           109          1     72           3       185        1156
       % Cars 95.3 98.7         100     97.9     100 100                                  0         100         100      98.0      98.2       98.1          95.6       100    98.6        100       96.9         97.8
 Heavy Vehicles       5     4      0        9      0   0                                  0           0            0         8         3         11             5         0      1           0          6          26
 % Heavy Vehicles   4.7   1.3      0      2.1      0   0                                  0           0            0       2.0       1.8        1.9           4.4         0    1.4           0        3.1         2.2

                                                                                                    Lexington Street
                                                                                                Out        In      Total
                                                                                                 466        410      876
                                                                                                    9         9       18
                                                                                                 475        419      894


                                                                                                   102  304              4
                                                                                                     5     4             0
                                                                                                   107  308              4
                                                                                                 Right Thru          Left




                                                                                           Peak Hour Data
                                                    452
                                                      14
                                                    466


                                                             72
                                                               1
                                                             73
                                                   Total




                                                           Left




                                                                                                                                                                              Out
                                                                                                                                                        Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                                        7
                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                             North                                                      7
                                     Auburn Street




                                                                            1
                                                                            0
                                                                            1
                                                           U-Turn Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                            4
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                            4




                                                                                                                                                                              Driveway
                                            185
                                              6
                                            191




                                                                                            Peak Hour Begins at 08:00 AM
                                           In




                                                                                                                                                                                  In
                                                                    109
                                                                      5
                                                                    114




                                                                                            Cars
                                                                                                                                                                  1
                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                  1


                                                                                                                                                                        5
                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                        5




                                                                                            Heavy Vehicles
                                                                                                                                                        Left
                                  267
                                     8
                                  275
                                 Out




                                                                                                                                                                        Total
                                                               3
                                                               0
                                                               3




                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                            0


                                                                                                                                                                           12

                                                                                                                                                                           12
                                                                                                                                                                            0




                                                                                                  Left Thru Right
                                                                                                   164  390     2
                                                                                                      3    8    0
                                                                                                   167  398     2


                                                                                                 413       556      969
                                                                                                    9       11        20
                                                                                                 422       567      989
                                                                                                Out       In       Total
                                                                                                     Auburn Street
N/S: Lexington Street/ Auburn Street                                                    PRECISION                                                                 File Name            : 112738 CC
E/W: Driveway/ Auburn Street                                                            D A T A                                                                   Site Code            : 10865
                                                                                        INDUSTRIES, LLC
City, State: Newton, MA                                                             P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
                                                                                                                                                                  Start Date           : 12/15/2011
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                         Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                   Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                  Page No              :1
                                                                            Groups Printed- Cars - Heavy Vehicles
                               Lexington Street                        Driveway                         Auburn Street                                  Auburn Street
                                 From North                            From East                         From South                                     From West
           Start Time      Right       Thru         Left         Right      Thru        Left      Right       Thru                 Left       Right     Thru        Left            U-Turn        Int. Total
          04:00 PM            18         70           1             0          1             0             0            86         26          28             0            15            1             246
          04:15 PM            17         76           1             1          1             3             3            64         21          32             0            17            2             238
          04:30 PM            28         61           0             0          1             0             0            75         26          33             0             5            1             230
          04:45 PM            14         64           1             0          0             2             0            76         23          34             1            10            0             225
              Total           77        271           3             1          3             5             3           301         96         127             1            47            4             939

          05:00 PM            22         85           0             1          2             0             0            91         39          32             1            14            0            287
          05:15 PM            23         67           0             2          0             1             1            85         32          24             0            17            1            253
          05:30 PM            28         73           0             2          1             1             0            74         28          37             0            12            0            256
          05:45 PM            23         66           0             0          0             0             0            80         25          34             0            21            0            249
              Total           96        291           0             5          3             2             1           330        124         127             1            64            1           1045

      Grand Total          173         562           3              6          6           7             4             631       220          254          2             111            5            1984
        Apprch %           23.4        76.2        0.4           31.6       31.6        36.8           0.5             73.8      25.7         68.3       0.5             29.8         1.3
          Total %           8.7        28.3        0.2            0.3        0.3         0.4           0.2             31.8      11.1         12.8       0.1               5.6        0.3
            Cars           172          553          3              6          5           7             4             623       215          252          2              110           5            1957
          % Cars           99.4        98.4        100           100        83.3        100           100              98.7      97.7         99.2       100             99.1         100             98.6
   Heavy Vehicles             1            9         0              0          1           0             0                8         5            2         0                 1          0              27
  % Heavy Vehicles          0.6          1.6         0              0       16.7           0             0              1.3       2.3          0.8         0               0.9          0              1.4




                            Lexington Street                           Driveway                                Auburn Street                              Auburn Street
                              From North                              From East                                 From South                                 From West
      Start Time    Right    Thru     Left App. Total    Right       Thru     Left   App. Total    Right       Thru     Left     App. Total   Right   Thru    Left U-Turn            App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
    05:00 PM        22    85       0     107       1   2                       0            3         0          91        39        130        32        1         14          0         47         287
    05:15 PM        23     67      0       90      2   0                       1            3         1           85       32        118        24        0         17          1         42         253
    05:30 PM        28     73      0     101       2   1                       1            4         0          74        28        102        37        0         12          0         49         256
    05:45 PM        23     66      0       89      0   0                       0            0         0          80        25        105        34        0         21          0         55         249
 Total Volume       96   291       0     387       5   3                       2           10         1         330       124        455       127        1         64          1        193        1045
 % App. Total     24.8 75.2        0              50  30                      20                    0.2        72.5      27.3                 65.8      0.5       33.2        0.5
          PHF .857 .856 .000            .904 .625 .375                      .500        .625      .250         .907      .795       .875      .858    .250        .762      .250        .877         .910
          Cars      96   285       0     381       5   3                       2          10          1         327       120        448       127        1         64          1        193        1032
       % Cars      100 97.9        0    98.4     100 100                     100         100       100         99.1      96.8       98.5       100     100         100       100         100         98.8
 Heavy Vehicles      0      6      0        6      0   0                       0           0          0            3         4          7        0        0          0          0          0           13
 % Heavy Vehicles    0    2.1      0      1.6      0   0                       0           0          0          0.9       3.2        1.5        0        0          0          0          0          1.2
N/S: Lexington Street/ Auburn Street                                                   PRECISION                                                               File Name          : 112738 CC
E/W: Driveway/ Auburn Street                                                           D A T A                                                                 Site Code          : 10865
                                                                                       INDUSTRIES, LLC
City, State: Newton, MA                                                            P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
                                                                                                                                                               Start Date         : 12/15/2011
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                        Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                  Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                               Page No            :1
                                                                                     Groups Printed- Cars
                               Lexington Street                        Driveway                         Auburn Street                               Auburn Street
                                 From North                            From East                         From South                                  From West
           Start Time      Right       Thru         Left         Right      Thru        Left      Right       Thru              Left       Right     Thru        Left          U-Turn        Int. Total
          04:00 PM            18         69           1             0         0             0             0           83        25          28             0           15           1             240
          04:15 PM            17         75           1             1         1             3             3           63        21          32             0           17           2             236
          04:30 PM            27         60           0             0         1             0             0           75        26          33             0            5           1             228
          04:45 PM            14         64           1             0         0             2             0           75        23          32             1            9           0             221
              Total           76        268           3             1         2             5             3          296        95         125             1           46           4             925

          05:00 PM            22         84           0             1         2             0             0           89        39          32             1           14           0            284
          05:15 PM            23         67           0             2         0             1             1           85        31          24             0           17           1            252
          05:30 PM            28         70           0             2         1             1             0           73        27          37             0           12           0            251
          05:45 PM            23         64           0             0         0             0             0           80        23          34             0           21           0            245
              Total           96        285           0             5         3             2             1          327       120         127             1           64           1           1032

       Grand Total         172         553            3             6         5           7             4            623      215          252          2             110          5            1957
         Apprch %          23.6         76          0.4          33.3      27.8        38.9           0.5             74      25.5         68.3       0.5             29.8       1.4
          Total %           8.8        28.3         0.2           0.3       0.3         0.4           0.2            31.8      11          12.9       0.1              5.6       0.3




                            Lexington Street                          Driveway                                Auburn Street                            Auburn Street
                              From North                             From East                                 From South                               From West
      Start Time    Right    Thru     Left App. Total    Right      Thru     Left   App. Total    Right       Thru     Left   App. Total   Right   Thru    Left U-Turn          App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
   05:00 PM       22      84       0     106       1  2                       0            3        0           89       39       128        32        1         14        0         47         284
    05:15 PM      23      67       0      90       2  0                       1            3        1           85       31       117        24        0         17        1         42         252
    05:30 PM      28      70       0      98       2  1                       1            4        0           73       27       100        37        0         12        0         49         251
    05:45 PM      23      64       0      87       0  0                       0            0        0           80       23       103        34        0         21        0         55         245
 Total Volume     96     285       0     381       5  3                       2           10        1          327      120       448       127        1         64        1        193        1032
 % App. Total   25.2 74.8          0              50 30                      20                   0.2           73     26.8                65.8      0.5       33.2      0.5
         PHF .857 .848 .000             .899 .625 .375                     .500        .625      .250         .919     .769      .875      .858    .250        .762     .250       .877         .908
N/S: Lexington Street/ Auburn Street                                                   PRECISION                                                               File Name          : 112738 CC
E/W: Driveway/ Auburn Street                                                           D A T A                                                                 Site Code          : 10865
                                                                                       INDUSTRIES, LLC
City, State: Newton, MA                                                             P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
                                                                                                                                                               Start Date         : 12/15/2011
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                         Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                   Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                               Page No            :1
                                                                               Groups Printed- Heavy Vehicles
                               Lexington Street                        Driveway                        Auburn Street                                 Auburn Street
                                 From North                            From East                        From South                                    From West
           Start Time      Right       Thru         Left         Right      Thru       Left      Right       Thru                Left       Right     Thru        Left         U-Turn        Int. Total
          04:00 PM             0           1          0             0          1            0              0            3          1           0           0            0           0               6
          04:15 PM             0           1          0             0          0            0              0            1          0           0           0            0           0               2
          04:30 PM             1           1          0             0          0            0              0            0          0           0           0            0           0               2
          04:45 PM             0           0          0             0          0            0              0            1          0           2           0            1           0               4
              Total            1           3          0             0          1            0              0            5          1           2           0            1           0              14

          05:00 PM             0           1          0             0          0            0              0            2          0           0           0            0           0               3
          05:15 PM             0           0          0             0          0            0              0            0          1           0           0            0           0               1
          05:30 PM             0           3          0             0          0            0              0            1          1           0           0            0           0               5
          05:45 PM             0           2          0             0          0            0              0            0          2           0           0            0           0               4
              Total            0           6          0             0          0            0              0            3          4           0           0            0           0              13

       Grand Total             1          9           0             0          1            0              0             8        5            2           0             1          0              27
         Apprch %            10         90            0             0       100             0              0          61.5     38.5         66.7           0          33.3          0
          Total %            3.7       33.3           0             0        3.7            0              0          29.6     18.5          7.4           0           3.7          0




                            Lexington Street                          Driveway                                 Auburn Street                            Auburn Street
                              From North                             From East                                  From South                               From West
      Start Time    Right    Thru     Left App. Total    Right      Thru     Left   App. Total     Right       Thru     Left   App. Total   Right   Thru    Left U-Turn         App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:00 PM
   04:00 PM        0       1       0        1      0   1                       0            1        0            3        1            4      0       0          0        0            0           6
    04:15 PM       0       1       0        1      0   0                       0            0        0            1        0            1      0       0          0        0            0           2
    04:30 PM       1       1       0        2      0   0                       0            0        0            0        0            0      0       0          0        0            0           2
    04:45 PM       0       0       0        0      0   0                       0            0        0            1        0            1      2       0          1        0            3           4
 Total Volume      1       3       0        4      0   1                       0            1        0            5        1            6      2       0          1        0            3          14
 % App. Total     25      75       0               0 100                       0                     0         83.3     16.7                66.7       0       33.3        0
         PHF .250 .750 .000             .500 .000 .250                      .000        .250      .000         .417     .250      .375      .250    .000       .250     .000       .250         .583
N/S: Lexington Street/ Auburn Street                                              PRECISION                                                                  File Name        : 112738 CC
E/W: Driveway/ Auburn Street                                                      D A T A                                                                    Site Code        : 10865
                                                                                  INDUSTRIES, LLC
City, State: Newton, MA                                                        P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
                                                                                                                                                             Start Date       : 12/15/2011
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                    Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                              Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                             Page No          :1
                                                                        Groups Printed- Peds and Bicycles
                             Lexington Street                       Driveway                           Auburn Street                                        Auburn Street
                               From North                          From East                            From South                                           From West
       Start Time    Right     Thru       Left   Peds     Right    Thru      Left    Peds     Right     Thru      Left               Peds         Right      Thru      Left   Peds         Int. Total
      04:00 PM           0        0         0       1         0       0           0            3           0         0         0          0          0           0       0       3                 7
      04:15 PM           0        0         0       2         0       0           0            0           0         0         0          0          0           0       0       2                 4
      04:30 PM           0        0         0       0         0       0           0            4           0         0         0          0          0           0       0       2                 6
      04:45 PM           0        0         0       0         0       0           0            1           0         0         0          0          0           0       0       3                 4
          Total          0        0         0       3         0       0           0            8           0         0         0          0          0           0       0      10                21

      05:00 PM           0        0         0       5         0       0           0            0           0         0         0          0          0           0       0       1                 6
      05:15 PM           0        0         0       0         0       0           0            0           0         0         0          0          0           0       0       3                 3
      05:30 PM           0        0         0       2         0       0           0            3           0         1         0          0          0           0       0       2                 8
      05:45 PM           0        0         0       4         0       0           0            2           0         0         0          1          0           0       0      11                18
          Total          0        0         0      11         0       0           0            5           0         1         0          1          0           0       0      17                35

   Grand Total           0        0         0     14          0       0           0       13               0         1         0         1           0           0       0     27                 56
     Apprch %            0        0         0    100          0       0           0      100               0       50          0       50            0           0       0    100
      Total %            0        0         0     25          0       0           0      23.2              0       1.8         0       1.8           0           0       0    48.2




                           Lexington Street                        Driveway                                       Auburn Street                              Auburn Street
                             From North                            From East                                        From South                                 From West
   Start Time Right Thru         Left Peds App. Total Right   Thru    Left Peds       App. Total   Right       Thru    Left Peds    App. Total   Right    Thru    Left Peds   App. Total    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
  05:00 PM      0       0     0     5        5     0  0    0    0                            0        0    0             0     0           0        0       0        0   1          1             6
  05:15 PM      0       0     0     0        0     0  0    0    0                            0        0    0             0     0           0        0       0        0   3          3             3
  05:30 PM      0       0     0     2        2     0  0    0    3                            3        0    1                               1        0       0        0   2          2             8
  05:45 PM      0       0     0     4        4     0  0    0    2                            2        0    0            0       1                                       11         11            18
 Total Volume   0       0     0    11      11      0  0    0    5                            5        0    1            0       1          2        0        0      0   17         17            35
 % App. Total   0       0     0 100                0  0    0 100                                      0   50            0      50                   0        0      0 100
        PHF .000 .000 .000 .550          .550 .000 .000 .000 .417                       .417       .000 .250         .000    .250     .500       .000     .000   .000 .386      .386          .486
N/S: Lexington Street/ Auburn Street                                                               PRECISION                                                                  File Name        : 112738 CC
E/W: Driveway/ Auburn Street                                                                       D A T A                                                                    Site Code        : 10865
                                                                                                   INDUSTRIES, LLC
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                        P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
                                                                                                                                                                              Start Date       : 12/15/2011
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                    Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                              Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                              Page No          :1


                            Lexington Street                                      Driveway                               Auburn Street                                    Auburn Street
                              From North                                         From East                                From South                                       From West
      Start Time    Right    Thru     Left App. Total    Right                  Thru     Left   App. Total      Right    Thru     Left     App. Total       Right     Thru    Left U-Turn    App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
    05:00 PM        22    85       0     107       1   2                                  0            3           0       91        39        130            32          1     14       0        47         287
    05:15 PM        23     67      0       90      2   0                                  1            3           1        85       32        118            24          0     17       1        42         253
    05:30 PM        28     73      0     101       2   1                                  1            4           0       74        28        102            37          0     12       0        49         256
    05:45 PM        23     66      0       89      0   0                                  0            0           0       80        25        105            34          0     21       0        55         249
 Total Volume       96   291       0     387       5   3                                  2           10           1      330       124        455           127          1     64       1       193        1045
 % App. Total     24.8 75.2        0              50  30                                 20                      0.2     72.5      27.3                     65.8        0.5   33.2     0.5
          PHF .857 .856 .000            .904 .625 .375                                 .500        .625        .250      .907      .795       .875          .858      .250    .762   .250       .877         .910
          Cars      96   285       0     381       5   3                                  2          10            1      327       120        448           127          1     64       1       193        1032
       % Cars      100 97.9        0    98.4     100 100                                100         100         100      99.1      96.8       98.5           100       100     100    100        100         98.8
 Heavy Vehicles      0      6      0        6      0   0                                  0           0            0         3         4          7            0          0      0       0         0           13
 % Heavy Vehicles    0    2.1      0      1.6      0   0                                  0           0            0       0.9       3.2        1.5            0          0      0       0         0          1.2

                                                                                                    Lexington Street
                                                                                                Out        In      Total
                                                                                                 396        381      777
                                                                                                    3         6        9
                                                                                                 399        387      786


                                                                                                    96  285              0
                                                                                                     0     6             0
                                                                                                    96  291              0
                                                                                                 Right Thru          Left




                                                                                           Peak Hour Data
                                                    412
                                                       4
                                                    416


                                                             64
                                                               0
                                                             64
                                                   Total




                                                           Left




                                                                                                                                                                              Out
                                                                                                                                                        Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                                        2
                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                             North                                                      2
                                     Auburn Street




                                                                            1
                                                                            0
                                                                            1
                                                           U-Turn Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                            5
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                            5




                                                                                                                                                                        Driveway
                                            193
                                              0
                                            193




                                                                                            Peak Hour Begins at 05:00 PM
                                           In




                                                                                                                                                                            In
                                                                    127
                                                                      0
                                                                    127




                                                                                                                                                                              10

                                                                                                                                                                              10



                                                                                            Cars
                                                                                                                                                                  3
                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                  3



                                                                                                                                                                               0




                                                                                            Heavy Vehicles
                                                                                                                                                        Left
                                  219
                                     4
                                  223
                                 Out




                                                                                                                                                                        Total
                                                               1
                                                               0
                                                               1




                                                                                                                                                            2
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                            2


                                                                                                                                                                           12

                                                                                                                                                                           12
                                                                                                                                                                            0




                                                                                                  Left Thru Right
                                                                                                   120  327     1
                                                                                                      4    3    0
                                                                                                   124  330     1


                                                                                                 414       448      862
                                                                                                    6        7        13
                                                                                                 420       455      875
                                                                                                Out       In       Total
                                                                                                     Auburn Street
N/S: Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                                                       PRECISION                                                       File Name           : 112738 D
E/W: Auburn Street                                                                        D A T A                                                         Site Code           : 10865
                                                                                          INDUSTRIES, LLC
City, State: Newton, MA                                                               P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
                                                                                                                                                          Start Date          : 12/15/2011
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                           Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                     Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                          Page No             :1
                                                                               Groups Printed- Cars - Heavy Vehicles
                           Commonwealth Avenue (Route                                                   Commonwealth Avenue (Route
                                                                             Auburn Street                                                             Auburn Street
                                      30)                                                                            30)
                                                                              From East                                                                 From West
                                   From North                                                                     From South
             Start Time      Right      Thru       Left              Right         Thru         Left       Right       Thru     Left           Right            Thru        Left        Int. Total
           07:00 AM              1          77          48            26            20                1             3         45       3          8              46            0            278
           07:15 AM              4         101          60            23            29                1             2         62       8         14              64            6            374
           07:30 AM              2          96          36            34            24                3             0         96      10         18              69            0            388
           07:45 AM              8         116          36            44            31                2             1        102       6         22              61            2            431
               Total            15         390         180           127           104                7             6        305      27         62             240            8           1471

           08:00 AM              8          95          26            48            52                2             1         92       9         24              69           4             430
           08:15 AM             11         111          40            38            61                4             0        111      12         19              64           2             473
           08:30 AM              3         108          32            31            51                0             1        112       6         20              64           5             433
           08:45 AM              2         103          50            36            65                5             2         99       7         20              69           4             462
               Total            24         417         148           153           229               11             4        414      34         83             266          15            1798

      Grand Total              39         807         328            280           333              18             10        719      61       145           506            23             3269
        Apprch %               3.3        68.7        27.9           44.4          52.8            2.9             1.3        91      7.7      21.5          75.1           3.4
          Total %              1.2        24.7         10             8.6          10.2            0.6             0.3        22      1.9       4.4          15.5           0.7
            Cars               38         762         319            272           329              18               9       686       59      143           503             21            3159
          % Cars              97.4        94.4        97.3           97.1          98.8            100             90        95.4    96.7      98.6          99.4          91.3             96.6
   Heavy Vehicles                1          45           9              8             4              0               1         33       2         2             3             2             110
 % Heavy Vehicles              2.6         5.6         2.7            2.9           1.2              0             10         4.6     3.3       1.4           0.6           8.7              3.4




                     Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                     Auburn Street                     Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                 Auburn Street
                               From North                                From East                                From South                              From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total      Right      Thru     Left        App. Total    Right Thru      Left App. Total    Right      Thru     Left     App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
    08:00 AM         8      95      26      129      48                   52          2           102          1        92       9    102       24        69           4         97        430
     08:15 AM       11     111       40     162       38                  61          4           103          0      111       12    123       19         64          2         85        473
     08:30 AM        3     108      32      143       31                  51          0            82          1      112        6    119       20         64          5         89        433
     08:45 AM        2     103      50      155       36                 65           5           106          2        99       7    108       20         69          4         93        462
 Total Volume       24     417     148      589     153                 229          11           393          4      414       34    452       83       266          15        364       1798
  % App. Total     4.1    70.8    25.1             38.9                58.3         2.8                      0.9     91.6      7.5            22.8      73.1         4.1
           PHF    .545    .939    .740     .909    .797                .881       .550           .927      .500      .924     .708    .919    .865      .964       .750        .938        .950
           Cars     23     398     145      566     149                 226         11            386          4      399       32     435      81       265         15         361       1748
       % Cars     95.8    95.4    98.0     96.1    97.4                98.7        100           98.2       100      96.4     94.1    96.2    97.6      99.6        100        99.2        97.2
 Heavy Vehicles      1       19       3      23        4                   3          0              7         0        15       2      17       2          1          0           3         50
 % Heavy Vehicles  4.2      4.6     2.0      3.9     2.6                 1.3          0            1.8         0       3.6     5.9      3.8    2.4        0.4          0         0.8        2.8
N/S: Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                                                       PRECISION                                                      File Name         : 112738 D
E/W: Auburn Street                                                                        D A T A                                                        Site Code         : 10865
                                                                                          INDUSTRIES, LLC
City, State: Newton, MA                                                               P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
                                                                                                                                                         Start Date        : 12/15/2011
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                           Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                     Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                         Page No           :1
                                                                                      Groups Printed- Cars
                           Commonwealth Avenue (Route                                                  Commonwealth Avenue (Route
                                                                             Auburn Street                                                            Auburn Street
                                      30)                                                                         30)
                                                                              From East                                                                From West
                                   From North                                                                  From South
             Start Time      Right      Thru       Left              Right         Thru       Left       Right      Thru       Left           Right           Thru       Left        Int. Total
           07:00 AM              1          70          47            25            20                1             3        42        3         8             45           0            265
           07:15 AM              4          93          57            23            28                1             1        56        8        14             63           4            352
           07:30 AM              2          91          35            33            24                3             0        91       10        18             69           0            376
           07:45 AM              8         110          35            42            31                2             1        98        6        22             61           2            418
               Total            15         364         174           123           103                7             5       287       27        62            238           6           1411

           08:00 AM              7          88          26            47            51                2             1        89        8        24             68          4             415
           08:15 AM             11         105          40            36            60                4             0       107       11        18             64          2             458
           08:30 AM              3         105          30            30            50                0             1       108        6        19             64          5             421
           08:45 AM              2         100          49            36            65                5             2        95        7        20             69          4             454
               Total            23         398         145           149           226               11             4       399       32        81            265         15            1748

        Grand Total            38         762         319            272           329               18             9       686       59      143           503          21             3159
          Apprch %             3.4        68.1        28.5           43.9          53.2             2.9           1.2        91      7.8      21.4          75.4         3.1
           Total %             1.2        24.1        10.1            8.6          10.4             0.6           0.3       21.7     1.9       4.5          15.9         0.7




                     Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                     Auburn Street                     Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                Auburn Street
                               From North                                From East                                From South                             From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total      Right      Thru     Left        App. Total    Right Thru      Left App. Total   Right      Thru     Left   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
    08:00 AM         7      88      26      121      47                  51          2            100         1        89       8      98      24        68         4         96        415
    08:15 AM       11      105      40      156      36                  60          4            100         0       107      11     118      18        64         2         84        458
    08:30 AM         3     105      30      138      30                  50          0             80         1       108       6     115      19        64         5         88        421
    08:45 AM         2     100      49      151      36                  65          5            106         2        95       7     104      20        69         4         93        454
 Total Volume       23     398     145      566     149                 226         11            386         4       399      32     435      81       265        15        361       1748
 % App. Total      4.1    70.3    25.6             38.6                58.5        2.8                      0.9      91.7     7.4            22.4      73.4       4.2
          PHF    .523     .948    .740     .907    .793                .869       .550           .910      .500      .924    .727    .922    .844      .960      .750       .940        .954
N/S: Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                                                            PRECISION                                                        File Name         : 112738 D
E/W: Auburn Street                                                                             D A T A                                                          Site Code         : 10865
                                                                                               INDUSTRIES, LLC
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                   P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
                                                                                                                                                                Start Date        : 12/15/2011
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                               Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                         Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                Page No           :1
                                                                                      Groups Printed- Heavy Vehicles
                           Commonwealth Avenue (Route                                                      Commonwealth Avenue (Route
                                                                                 Auburn Street                                                               Auburn Street
                                      30)                                                                               30)
                                                                                  From East                                                                   From West
                                   From North                                                                        From South
             Start Time      Right      Thru       Left                  Right         Thru         Left      Right       Thru     Left           Right              Thru       Left        Int. Total
           07:00 AM              0           7               1              1              0              0             0         3        0             0             1           0              13
           07:15 AM              0           8               3              0              1              0             1         6        0             0             1           2              22
           07:30 AM              0           5               1              1              0              0             0         5        0             0             0           0              12
           07:45 AM              0           6               1              2              0              0             0         4        0             0             0           0              13
               Total             0          26               6              4              1              0             1        18        0             0             2           2              60

           08:00 AM              1           7               0              1              1              0             0         3        1             0             1           0              15
           08:15 AM              0           6               0              2              1              0             0         4        1             1             0           0              15
           08:30 AM              0           3               2              1              1              0             0         4        0             1             0           0              12
           08:45 AM              0           3               1              0              0              0             0         4        0             0             0           0               8
               Total             1          19               3              4              3              0             0        15        2             2             1           0              50

        Grand Total              1          45           9                  8             4               0             1         33       2         2                3           2             110
          Apprch %             1.8        81.8        16.4               66.7          33.3               0           2.8       91.7     5.6      28.6             42.9        28.6
           Total %             0.9        40.9         8.2                7.3           3.6               0           0.9        30      1.8       1.8              2.7         1.8




                     Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                         Auburn Street                     Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                   Auburn Street
                               From North                                    From East                                From South                                From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total          Right      Thru     Left        App. Total    Right Thru      Left App. Total   Right         Thru     Left   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:15 AM
    07:15 AM         0       8       3       11       0                       1          0               1        1         6       0       7       0            1         2           3          22
    07:30 AM         0       5       1        6       1                       0          0               1        0         5       0       5       0            0         0           0          12
    07:45 AM         0       6       1        7       2                       0          0               2        0         4       0       4       0            0         0           0          13
    08:00 AM         1       7       0        8       1                       1          0               2        0         3       1       4       0            1         0           1          15
 Total Volume        1      26       5       32       4                       2          0               6        1        18       1      20       0            2         2           4          62
 % App. Total      3.1    81.2    15.6             66.7                    33.3          0                        5        90       5               0           50        50
          PHF    .250     .813    .417     .727    .500                    .500       .000           .750      .250      .750    .250    .714    .000         .500      .250       .333        .705
N/S: Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                                              PRECISION                                                         File Name        : 112738 D
E/W: Auburn Street                                                               D A T A                                                           Site Code        : 10865
                                                                                 INDUSTRIES, LLC
City, State: Newton, MA                                                       P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
                                                                                                                                                   Start Date       : 12/15/2011
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                   Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                             Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                   Page No          :1
                                                                       Groups Printed- Peds and Bicycles
                    Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)               Auburn Street              Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                        Auburn Street
                            From North                            From East                            From South                                  From West
       Start Time    Right  Thru      Left    Peds       Right    Thru      Left    Peds     Right     Thru     Left  Peds              Right      Thru      Left   Peds         Int. Total
      07:00 AM          0        0        0        2         0       0           0            2        0          0        0      0        0           0       0        0                 4
      07:15 AM          0        0        0        1         0       0           0            0        0          0        0      0        0           0       0        0                 1
      07:30 AM          0        0        0        1         0       0           0            0        0          0        0      0        0           0       0        0                 1
      07:45 AM          0        0        0        1         0       0           0            0        0          0        0      0        0           0       0        0                 1
          Total         0        0        0        5         0       0           0            2        0          0        0      0        0           0       0        0                 7

      08:00 AM          0        0        0        1         0       0           0            0        0          0        0      0        0           0       0        2                 3
      08:15 AM          0        0        0        1         0       0           0            0        0          0        0      0        0           0       0        0                 1
      08:30 AM          0        0        0        1         0       0           0            0        0          0        0      0        0           0       0        1                 2
      08:45 AM          0        0        0        0         0       0           0            0        0          0        0      0        0           0       0        1                 1
          Total         0        0        0        3         0       0           0            0        0          0        0      0        0           0       0        4                 7

   Grand Total          0        0        0        8         0       0           0         2           0          0        0      0        0           0       0       4                14
     Apprch %           0        0        0     100          0       0           0      100            0          0        0      0        0           0       0    100
      Total %           0        0        0     57.1         0       0           0      14.3           0          0        0      0        0           0       0    28.6




                  Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                Auburn Street                      Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                  Auburn Street
                             From North                           From East                                  From South                              From West
   Start Time Right Thru        Left Peds App. Total Right   Thru    Left Peds       App. Total   Right Thru    Left Peds App. Total   Right    Thru    Left Peds   App. Total    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:00 AM
  07:00 AM      0       0     0     2        2     0  0    0    2                           2        0    0          0      0     0       0        0      0    0            0            4
  07:15 AM      0       0     0     1        1     0  0    0    0                           0        0    0          0      0     0       0        0      0    0            0            1
  07:30 AM      0       0     0     1        1     0  0    0    0                           0        0    0          0      0     0       0        0      0    0            0            1
  07:45 AM      0       0     0     1        1     0  0    0    0                           0        0    0          0      0     0       0        0      0    0            0            1
 Total Volume   0       0     0     5        5     0  0    0    2                           2        0    0          0      0     0       0        0      0    0            0            7
 % App. Total   0       0     0 100                0  0    0 100                                     0    0          0      0             0        0      0    0
        PHF .000 .000 .000 .625          .625 .000 .000 .000 .250                      .250       .000 .000       .000   .000   .000   .000     .000   .000 .000      .000          .438
N/S: Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                                                               PRECISION                                                                 File Name               : 112738 D
E/W: Auburn Street                                                                                D A T A                                                                   Site Code               : 10865
                                                                                                  INDUSTRIES, LLC
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                       P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
                                                                                                                                                                            Start Date              : 12/15/2011
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                   Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                             Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                            Page No                 :1


                     Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                              Auburn Street                    Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                         Auburn Street
                               From North                                         From East                               From South                                      From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total                  Right   Thru     Left     App. Total      Right Thru      Left App. Total        Right          Thru     Left           App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
    08:00 AM         8      95      26      129      48                             52        2         102            1        92      9     102           24            69                 4         97        430
     08:15 AM       11     111       40     162       38                            61        4         103            0      111      12     123           19             64                2         85        473
     08:30 AM        3     108      32      143       31                            51        0          82            1      112       6     119           20             64                5         89        433
     08:45 AM        2     103      50      155       36                           65         5         106            2        99      7     108           20             69                4         93        462
 Total Volume       24     417     148      589     153                           229        11         393            4      414      34     452           83           266                15        364       1798
  % App. Total     4.1    70.8    25.1             38.9                          58.3       2.8                      0.9     91.6     7.5                 22.8          73.1               4.1
           PHF    .545    .939    .740     .909    .797                          .881     .550          .927       .500      .924    .708    .919         .865          .964             .750        .938        .950
           Cars     23     398     145      566     149                           226       11           386           4      399      32     435           81           265               15         361       1748
       % Cars     95.8    95.4    98.0     96.1    97.4                          98.7      100          98.2        100      96.4    94.1    96.2         97.6          99.6              100        99.2        97.2
 Heavy Vehicles      1       19       3      23        4                             3        0             7          0        15      2      17            2              1                0           3         50
 % Heavy Vehicles  4.2      4.6     2.0      3.9     2.6                           1.3        0           1.8          0       3.6    5.9      3.8         2.4            0.4                0         0.8        2.8

                                                                                         Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)
                                                                                            Out       In      Total
                                                                                             563       566    1129
                                                                                              19        23       42
                                                                                             582       589    1171


                                                                                                     23  398       145
                                                                                                      1   19          3
                                                                                                     24  417       148
                                                                                                  Right Thru      Left




                                                                                          Peak Hour Data
                                                    642
                                                       9
                                                    651
                                                   Total




                                                                                                                                                              Out
                                                             15
                                                               0
                                                             15




                                                                                                                                                               418

                                                                                                                                                               414
                                                                                                                                            Right Thru
                                                           Left




                                                                                                                                              153

                                                                                                                                              149



                                                                                                                                                                  4
                                                                                                         North
                                                                                                                                                                   Auburn Street
                                     Auburn Street




                                                                                                                                                4
                                            361
                                              3
                                            364




                                                                                           Peak Hour Begins at 08:00 AM
                                                                  265
                                                                     1
                                                                  266
                                                           Right Thru
                                           In




                                                                                                                                                                        In
                                                                                                                                                   229

                                                                                                                                                   226


                                                                                                                                                                         393

                                                                                                                                                                         386



                                                                                           Cars
                                                                                                                                                      3




                                                                                                                                                                           7




                                                                                           Heavy Vehicles
                                                              81
                                                               2
                                                              83




                                                                                                                                            Left
                                  281
                                     6
                                  287
                                 Out




                                                                                                                                                                                 Total
                                                                                                                                              11

                                                                                                                                              11
                                                                                                                                                0



                                                                                                                                                                                  811

                                                                                                                                                                                  800
                                                                                                                                                                                    11




                                                                                                  Left Thru Right
                                                                                                    32  399     4
                                                                                                      2  15     0
                                                                                                    34  414     4


                                                                                             490       435     925
                                                                                              21        17       38
                                                                                             511       452     963
                                                                                            Out       In      Total
                                                                                         Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)
N/S: Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                                                       PRECISION                                                       File Name           : 112738 DD
E/W: Auburn Street                                                                        D A T A                                                         Site Code           : 10865
                                                                                          INDUSTRIES, LLC
City, State: Newton, MA                                                               P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
                                                                                                                                                          Start Date          : 12/15/2011
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                           Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                     Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                          Page No             :1
                                                                               Groups Printed- Cars - Heavy Vehicles
                           Commonwealth Avenue (Route                                                   Commonwealth Avenue (Route
                                                                             Auburn Street                                                             Auburn Street
                                      30)                                                                            30)
                                                                              From East                                                                 From West
                                   From North                                                                     From South
             Start Time      Right      Thru       Left              Right         Thru         Left       Right       Thru     Left           Right            Thru        Left        Int. Total
           04:00 PM              4          98          31            41            33                0             2        103       6         15              33            4            370
           04:15 PM              2          85          35            38            38                6             5        124      12         15              47            0            407
           04:30 PM              4         109          27            38            37                3             2         85       7         16              37            2            367
           04:45 PM              6          96          42            45            34                8             1         94       6         20              48            2            402
               Total            16         388         135           162           142               17            10        406      31         66             165            8           1546

           05:00 PM              6         129          36            43            47                1             4        110      10         16              43           2             447
           05:15 PM              6         106          39            28            48                1             0        102       6         23              68           5             432
           05:30 PM              3         130          32            44            45                6             2         97       6         27              53           7             452
           05:45 PM              4         118          40            32            27                3             2        110       9         20              49           2             416
               Total            19         483         147           147           167               11             8        419      31         86             213          16            1747

      Grand Total              35         871         282            309           309              28           18          825       62       152          378             24            3293
        Apprch %               2.9        73.3        23.7           47.8          47.8            4.3             2         91.2     6.9      27.4          68.2           4.3
          Total %              1.1        26.5         8.6            9.4           9.4            0.9           0.5         25.1     1.9        4.6         11.5           0.7
            Cars               35         856         278            307           308              26           18          799       60       150          376             24            3237
          % Cars              100         98.3        98.6           99.4          99.7           92.9          100          96.8    96.8      98.7          99.5           100             98.3
   Heavy Vehicles                0          15           4              2             1              2             0           26       2          2            2             0              56
 % Heavy Vehicles                0         1.7         1.4            0.6           0.3            7.1             0          3.2     3.2        1.3          0.5             0              1.7




                     Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                     Auburn Street                     Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                 Auburn Street
                               From North                                From East                                From South                              From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total      Right      Thru     Left        App. Total    Right Thru      Left App. Total    Right      Thru     Left     App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
    05:00 PM          6    129       36     171      43                  47          1             91          4      110       10    124       16         43          2         61        447
     05:15 PM         6    106       39     151      28                  48          1             77          0      102        6    108       23        68           5         96        432
     05:30 PM         3    130       32     165      44                  45          6             95          2        97       6    105       27        53           7         87        452
     05:45 PM         4    118      40      162      32                  27          3             62          2      110        9    121       20         49          2         71        416
 Total Volume        19    483     147      649     147                 167         11            325          8      419       31    458       86       213          16        315       1747
  % App. Total      2.9   74.4    22.7             45.2                51.4        3.4                       1.7     91.5      6.8            27.3      67.6         5.1
           PHF    .792    .929    .919     .949    .835                .870       .458           .855      .500      .952     .775    .923    .796      .783       .571        .820        .966
           Cars      19    476     144      639     147                 167         10            324          8      412       29     449      84       212         16         312       1724
       % Cars      100    98.6    98.0     98.5     100                 100       90.9           99.7       100      98.3     93.5    98.0    97.7      99.5        100        99.0        98.7
 Heavy Vehicles       0       7       3       10      0                   0          1               1         0         7       2        9      2          1          0           3         23
 % Heavy Vehicles     0     1.4     2.0      1.5      0                   0        9.1             0.3         0       1.7     6.5      2.0    2.3        0.5          0         1.0        1.3
N/S: Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                                                       PRECISION                                                      File Name         : 112738 DD
E/W: Auburn Street                                                                        D A T A                                                        Site Code         : 10865
                                                                                          INDUSTRIES, LLC
City, State: Newton, MA                                                               P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
                                                                                                                                                         Start Date        : 12/15/2011
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                           Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                     Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                         Page No           :1
                                                                                      Groups Printed- Cars
                           Commonwealth Avenue (Route                                                  Commonwealth Avenue (Route
                                                                             Auburn Street                                                            Auburn Street
                                      30)                                                                         30)
                                                                              From East                                                                From West
                                   From North                                                                  From South
             Start Time      Right      Thru       Left              Right         Thru       Left       Right      Thru       Left           Right           Thru       Left        Int. Total
           04:00 PM              4          96          30            41            32                0            2         97        6        15             33           4            360
           04:15 PM              2          84          35            37            38                5            5        120       12        15             46           0            399
           04:30 PM              4         105          27            37            37                3            2         81        7        16             37           2            358
           04:45 PM              6          95          42            45            34                8            1         89        6        20             48           2            396
               Total            16         380         134           160           141               16           10        387       31        66            164           8           1513

           05:00 PM              6         127          35            43            47                1             4       110        9        16             43          2             443
           05:15 PM              6         105          38            28            48                1             0       101        6        23             68          5             429
           05:30 PM              3         128          32            44            45                5             2        94        6        26             52          7             444
           05:45 PM              4         116          39            32            27                3             2       107        8        19             49          2             408
               Total            19         476         144           147           167               10             8       412       29        84            212         16            1724

        Grand Total            35         856         278            307           308              26            18        799       60      150           376          24             3237
          Apprch %               3        73.2        23.8           47.9           48              4.1           2.1       91.1     6.8      27.3          68.4         4.4
           Total %             1.1        26.4         8.6            9.5           9.5             0.8           0.6       24.7     1.9       4.6          11.6         0.7




                     Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                     Auburn Street                     Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                Auburn Street
                               From North                                From East                                From South                             From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total      Right      Thru     Left        App. Total    Right Thru      Left App. Total   Right      Thru     Left   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
    05:00 PM         6     127      35      168      43                  47          1             91         4       110       9     123      16        43         2         61        443
    05:15 PM         6     105      38      149      28                  48          1             77         0       101       6     107      23        68         5         96        429
    05:30 PM         3     128      32      163      44                  45          5             94         2        94       6     102      26        52         7         85        444
    05:45 PM         4     116      39      159      32                  27          3             62         2       107       8     117      19        49         2         70        408
 Total Volume      19      476     144      639     147                 167         10            324         8       412      29     449      84       212        16        312       1724
 % App. Total        3    74.5    22.5             45.4                51.5        3.1                      1.8      91.8     6.5            26.9      67.9       5.1
          PHF    .792     .930    .923     .951    .835                .870       .500           .862      .500      .936    .806    .913    .808      .779      .571       .813        .971
N/S: Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                                                            PRECISION                                                        File Name         : 112738 DD
E/W: Auburn Street                                                                             D A T A                                                          Site Code         : 10865
                                                                                               INDUSTRIES, LLC
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                   P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
                                                                                                                                                                Start Date        : 12/15/2011
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                               Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                         Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                Page No           :1
                                                                                      Groups Printed- Heavy Vehicles
                           Commonwealth Avenue (Route                                                      Commonwealth Avenue (Route
                                                                                 Auburn Street                                                               Auburn Street
                                      30)                                                                               30)
                                                                                  From East                                                                   From West
                                   From North                                                                        From South
             Start Time      Right      Thru       Left                  Right         Thru         Left      Right       Thru     Left           Right              Thru       Left        Int. Total
           04:00 PM              0            2              1              0              1              0             0         6        0             0             0           0              10
           04:15 PM              0            1              0              1              0              1             0         4        0             0             1           0               8
           04:30 PM              0            4              0              1              0              0             0         4        0             0             0           0               9
           04:45 PM              0            1              0              0              0              0             0         5        0             0             0           0               6
               Total             0            8              1              2              1              1             0        19        0             0             1           0              33

           05:00 PM              0            2              1              0              0              0             0         0        1             0             0           0               4
           05:15 PM              0            1              1              0              0              0             0         1        0             0             0           0               3
           05:30 PM              0            2              0              0              0              1             0         3        0             1             1           0               8
           05:45 PM              0            2              1              0              0              0             0         3        1             1             0           0               8
               Total             0            7              3              0              0              1             0         7        2             2             1           0              23

        Grand Total              0          15           4                  2             1               2             0         26       2          2                2           0              56
          Apprch %               0        78.9        21.1                40            20              40              0       92.9     7.1        50               50            0
           Total %               0        26.8         7.1                3.6           1.8             3.6             0       46.4     3.6        3.6              3.6           0




                     Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                         Auburn Street                     Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                   Auburn Street
                               From North                                    From East                                From South                                From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total          Right      Thru     Left        App. Total    Right Thru      Left App. Total   Right         Thru     Left   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:00 PM
    04:00 PM         0       2       1        3       0                       1          0               1        0         6       0       6       0            0         0           0          10
    04:15 PM         0       1       0        1       1                       0          1               2        0         4       0       4       0            1         0           1           8
    04:30 PM         0       4       0        4       1                       0          0               1        0         4       0       4       0            0         0           0           9
    04:45 PM         0       1       0        1       0                       0          0               0        0         5       0       5       0            0         0           0           6
 Total Volume        0       8       1        9       2                       1          1               4        0        19       0      19       0            1         0           1          33
 % App. Total        0    88.9    11.1               50                      25         25                        0       100       0               0          100         0
          PHF    .000     .500    .250     .563    .500                    .250       .250           .500      .000      .792    .000    .792    .000         .250      .000       .250        .825
N/S: Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                                              PRECISION                                                         File Name        : 112738 DD
E/W: Auburn Street                                                               D A T A                                                           Site Code        : 10865
                                                                                 INDUSTRIES, LLC
City, State: Newton, MA                                                       P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
                                                                                                                                                   Start Date       : 12/15/2011
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                   Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                             Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                   Page No          :1
                                                                       Groups Printed- Peds and Bicycles
                    Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)               Auburn Street              Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                        Auburn Street
                            From North                            From East                            From South                                  From West
       Start Time    Right  Thru      Left    Peds       Right    Thru      Left    Peds     Right     Thru     Left  Peds              Right      Thru      Left   Peds         Int. Total
      04:00 PM          0        0        0        0         0       0           0            0        0          0      0        1        0           0       0        3                 4
      04:15 PM          0        0        0        2         0       0           0            0        0          0      0        1        0           0       0        0                 3
      04:30 PM          0        0        0        0         0       0           0            0        0          0      0        0        0           0       0        1                 1
      04:45 PM          0        0        0        0         0       0           0            0        0          0      0        0        0           0       0        0                 0
          Total         0        0        0        2         0       0           0            0        0          0      0        2        0           0       0        4                 8

      05:00 PM          0        0        0        1         0       0           0            0        0          0      0        0        0           0       0        0                 1
      05:15 PM          0        0        0        0         0       0           0            0        0          0      0        0        0           0       0        0                 0
      05:30 PM          0        0        0        0         0       0           0            0        0          0      0        0        0           0       0        2                 2
      05:45 PM          0        0        0        0         0       0           0            0        0          0      0        0        0           0       0        0                 0
          Total         0        0        0        1         0       0           0            0        0          0      0        0        0           0       0        2                 3

   Grand Total          0        0        0        3         0       0           0            0        0          0      0       2         0           0       0       6                11
     Apprch %           0        0        0     100          0       0           0            0        0          0      0    100          0           0       0    100
      Total %           0        0        0     27.3         0       0           0            0        0          0      0    18.2         0           0       0    54.5




                  Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                Auburn Street                      Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                  Auburn Street
                             From North                           From East                                  From South                              From West
   Start Time Right Thru        Left Peds App. Total Right   Thru    Left Peds       App. Total   Right Thru    Left Peds App. Total   Right    Thru    Left Peds   App. Total    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:00 PM
  04:00 PM      0       0     0     0        0     0  0    0    0                           0  0    0    0    1                   1       0        0      0    3            3            4
  04:15 PM      0       0     0     2        2     0  0    0    0                           0  0    0    0    1                   1       0        0      0    0            0            3
  04:30 PM      0       0     0     0        0     0  0    0    0                           0  0    0    0    0                   0       0        0      0    1            1            1
  04:45 PM      0       0     0     0        0     0  0    0    0                           0  0    0    0    0                   0       0        0      0    0            0            0
 Total Volume   0       0     0     2        2     0  0    0    0                           0  0    0    0    2                   2       0        0      0    4            4            8
 % App. Total   0       0     0 100                0  0    0    0                              0    0    0 100                            0        0      0 100
        PHF .000 .000 .000 .250          .250 .000 .000 .000 .000                      .000 .000 .000 .000 .500                .500    .000     .000   .000 .333      .333          .500
N/S: Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                                                              PRECISION                                                                 File Name               : 112738 DD
E/W: Auburn Street                                                                               D A T A                                                                   Site Code               : 10865
                                                                                                 INDUSTRIES, LLC
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                      P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
                                                                                                                                                                           Start Date              : 12/15/2011
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                  Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                            Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                           Page No                 :1


                     Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                              Auburn Street                   Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                         Auburn Street
                               From North                                         From East                              From South                                      From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total                  Right   Thru     Left     App. Total     Right Thru      Left App. Total        Right          Thru     Left           App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
    05:00 PM          6    129       36     171      43                            47       1            91           4      110      10     124           16             43                2         61        447
     05:15 PM         6    106       39     151      28                            48       1            77           0      102       6     108           23            68                 5         96        432
     05:30 PM         3    130       32     165      44                            45       6            95           2        97      6     105           27            53                 7         87        452
     05:45 PM         4    118      40      162      32                            27       3            62           2      110       9     121           20             49                2         71        416
 Total Volume        19    483     147      649     147                           167      11           325           8      419      31     458           86           213                16        315       1747
  % App. Total      2.9   74.4    22.7             45.2                          51.4     3.4                       1.7     91.5     6.8                 27.3          67.6               5.1
           PHF    .792    .929    .919     .949    .835                          .870    .458          .855       .500      .952    .775    .923         .796          .783             .571        .820        .966
           Cars      19    476     144      639     147                           167      10           324           8      412      29     449           84           212               16         312       1724
       % Cars      100    98.6    98.0     98.5     100                           100    90.9          99.7        100      98.3    93.5    98.0         97.7          99.5              100        99.0        98.7
 Heavy Vehicles       0       7       3       10      0                             0       1              1          0         7      2        9           2              1                0           3         23
 % Heavy Vehicles     0     1.4     2.0      1.5      0                             0     9.1            0.3          0       1.7    6.5      2.0         2.3            0.5                0         1.0        1.3

                                                                                        Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)
                                                                                           Out       In      Total
                                                                                            575       639    1214
                                                                                               7       10       17
                                                                                            582       649    1231


                                                                                                    19  476       144
                                                                                                     0     7         3
                                                                                                    19  483       147
                                                                                                 Right Thru      Left




                                                                                         Peak Hour Data
                                                    527
                                                       5
                                                    532
                                                   Total




                                                                                                                                                             Out
                                                             16
                                                               0
                                                             16




                                                                                                                                                              368

                                                                                                                                                              364
                                                                                                                                           Right Thru
                                                           Left




                                                                                                                                             147

                                                                                                                                             147



                                                                                                                                                                 4
                                                                                                        North
                                                                                                                                                                  Auburn Street
                                     Auburn Street




                                                                                                                                               0
                                            312
                                              3
                                            315




                                                                                          Peak Hour Begins at 05:00 PM
                                                                  212
                                                                     1
                                                                  213
                                                           Right Thru
                                           In




                                                                                                                                                                       In
                                                                                                                                                  167

                                                                                                                                                  167


                                                                                                                                                                        325

                                                                                                                                                                        324



                                                                                          Cars
                                                                                                                                                     0




                                                                                                                                                                          1




                                                                                          Heavy Vehicles
                                                              84
                                                               2
                                                              86




                                                                                                                                           Left
                                  215
                                     2
                                  217
                                 Out




                                                                                                                                                                                Total
                                                                                                                                             11

                                                                                                                                             10
                                                                                                                                               1



                                                                                                                                                                                 693

                                                                                                                                                                                 688
                                                                                                                                                                                    5




                                                                                                 Left Thru Right
                                                                                                   29  412     8
                                                                                                     2    7    0
                                                                                                   31  419     8


                                                                                            570       449    1019
                                                                                             10         9       19
                                                                                            580       458    1038
                                                                                           Out       In      Total
                                                                                        Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)
N/S: Commonwealth Ave Carriage Road                                                           PRECISION                                                         File Name           : 112738 E
E/W: Auburn Street                                                                            D A T A                                                           Site Code           : 10865
                                                                                              INDUSTRIES, LLC
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                   P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
                                                                                                                                                                Start Date          : 12/15/2011
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                               Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                         Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                Page No             :1
                                                                                   Groups Printed- Cars - Heavy Vehicles
                            Commonwealth Ave Carriage                                                        Commonwealth Ave Carriage
                                                                                 Auburn Street                                                               Auburn Street
                                      Road                                                                               Road
                                                                                  From East                                                                   From West
                                   From North                                                                         From South
             Start Time      Right      Thru        Left                 Right         Thru         Left       Right       Thru      Left         Right               Thru        Left        Int. Total
           07:00 AM              0            0              0              6           47                0             0         0        0             0             92            2            147
           07:15 AM              0            0              0              0           53                0             2         0        0             0            128            1            184
           07:30 AM              0            0              0              4           59                0             1         0        1             0            102            0            167
           07:45 AM              0            0              0              7           77                0             4         0        0             0             96            0            184
               Total             0            0              0             17          236                0             7         0        1             0            418            3            682

           08:00 AM              0            0              0              3          101                0            1          0        1             0             97            1            204
           08:15 AM              0            0              0              1          103                0            4          1        0             0            101            0            210
           08:30 AM              0            0              0              0           84                0            5          1        0             0             93            0            183
           08:45 AM              0            0              0              5          107                0            4          0        0             0            123            0            239
               Total             0            0              0              9          395                0           14          2        1             0            414            1            836

      Grand Total                0            0              0            26           631                0          21            2        2            0         832              4            1518
        Apprch %                 0            0              0              4            96               0          84            8        8            0         99.5           0.5
          Total %                0            0              0            1.7          41.6               0          1.4         0.1      0.1            0         54.8           0.3
            Cars                 0            0              0            26           619                0          21            2        2            0         821              4            1495
          % Cars                 0            0              0           100           98.1               0         100         100      100             0         98.7           100             98.5
   Heavy Vehicles                0            0              0              0            12               0            0           0        0            0           11             0              23
 % Heavy Vehicles                0            0              0              0           1.9               0            0           0        0            0          1.3             0              1.5




                    Commonwealth Ave Carriage Road                          Auburn Street                     Commonwealth Ave Carriage Road                   Auburn Street
                               From North                                    From East                                From South                                From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total          Right      Thru     Left        App. Total    Right Thru      Left App. Total   Right         Thru     Left     App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
    08:00 AM         0       0       0        0        3                    101          0           104          1         0        1      2       0            97          1         98         204
     08:15 AM        0       0       0        0        1                    103          0           104          4         1        0      5       0          101           0        101         210
     08:30 AM        0       0       0        0        0                      84         0            84          5         1        0      6       0            93          0         93         183
     08:45 AM        0       0       0        0        5                    107          0           112          4         0        0      4       0          123           0        123         239
 Total Volume        0       0       0        0        9                    395          0           404         14         2        1     17       0          414           1        415         836
  % App. Total       0       0       0               2.2                   97.8          0                     82.4      11.8      5.9              0         99.8         0.2
           PHF    .000    .000    .000     .000    .450                    .923       .000           .902      .700      .500    .250    .708    .000         .841       .250        .843        .874
           Cars      0       0       0        0        9                    388          0            397        14         2        1     17       0          412           1        413         827
       % Cars        0       0       0        0     100                    98.2          0           98.3       100       100     100     100       0         99.5        100        99.5        98.9
 Heavy Vehicles      0       0       0        0        0                       7         0               7        0         0        0      0       0             2          0           2          9
 % Heavy Vehicles    0       0       0        0        0                     1.8         0             1.7        0         0        0      0       0           0.5          0         0.5        1.1
N/S: Commonwealth Ave Carriage Road                                                           PRECISION                                                         File Name         : 112738 E
E/W: Auburn Street                                                                            D A T A                                                           Site Code         : 10865
                                                                                              INDUSTRIES, LLC
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                   P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
                                                                                                                                                                Start Date        : 12/15/2011
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                               Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                         Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                Page No           :1
                                                                                          Groups Printed- Cars
                            Commonwealth Ave Carriage                                                      Commonwealth Ave Carriage
                                                                                 Auburn Street                                                               Auburn Street
                                      Road                                                                            Road
                                                                                  From East                                                                   From West
                                   From North                                                                      From South
             Start Time      Right      Thru        Left                 Right         Thru       Left       Right      Thru       Left           Right              Thru       Left        Int. Total
           07:00 AM              0            0              0              6           46                0             0        0         0             0            90           2            144
           07:15 AM              0            0              0              0           52                0             2        0         0             0           123           1            178
           07:30 AM              0            0              0              4           58                0             1        0         1             0           101           0            165
           07:45 AM              0            0              0              7           75                0             4        0         0             0            95           0            181
               Total             0            0              0             17          231                0             7        0         1             0           409           3            668

           08:00 AM              0            0              0              3           99                0            1         0         1             0            96           1            201
           08:15 AM              0            0              0              1          100                0            4         1         0             0           101           0            207
           08:30 AM              0            0              0              0           82                0            5         1         0             0            92           0            180
           08:45 AM              0            0              0              5          107                0            4         0         0             0           123           0            239
               Total             0            0              0              9          388                0           14         2         1             0           412           1            827

        Grand Total              0            0              0            26           619                0           21          2        2             0         821            4            1495
          Apprch %               0            0              0              4           96                0           84          8        8             0         99.5         0.5
           Total %               0            0              0            1.7          41.4               0           1.4       0.1      0.1             0         54.9         0.3




                    Commonwealth Ave Carriage Road                          Auburn Street                     Commonwealth Ave Carriage Road                   Auburn Street
                               From North                                    From East                                From South                                From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total          Right      Thru     Left        App. Total    Right Thru      Left App. Total   Right         Thru     Left   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
    08:00 AM         0       0       0        0       3                      99          0           102          1         0      1        2       0           96         1         97         201
    08:15 AM         0       0       0        0       1                     100          0           101          4         1      0        5       0          101         0        101         207
    08:30 AM         0       0       0        0       0                      82          0            82          5         1      0        6       0           92         0         92         180
    08:45 AM         0       0       0        0       5                     107          0           112          4         0      0        4       0          123         0        123         239
 Total Volume        0       0       0        0       9                     388          0           397         14         2      1       17       0          412         1        413         827
 % App. Total        0       0       0              2.3                    97.7          0                     82.4      11.8    5.9                0         99.8       0.2
          PHF    .000     .000    .000     .000    .450                    .907       .000           .886      .700      .500   .250     .708    .000         .837      .250       .839        .865
N/S: Commonwealth Ave Carriage Road                                                            PRECISION                                                        File Name         : 112738 E
E/W: Auburn Street                                                                             D A T A                                                          Site Code         : 10865
                                                                                               INDUSTRIES, LLC
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                   P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
                                                                                                                                                                Start Date        : 12/15/2011
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                               Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                         Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                Page No           :1
                                                                                      Groups Printed- Heavy Vehicles
                            Commonwealth Ave Carriage                                                       Commonwealth Ave Carriage
                                                                                 Auburn Street                                                               Auburn Street
                                      Road                                                                              Road
                                                                                  From East                                                                   From West
                                   From North                                                                        From South
             Start Time      Right      Thru        Left                 Right         Thru         Left      Right       Thru      Left          Right              Thru       Left        Int. Total
           07:00 AM              0            0              0              0              1              0             0        0         0             0             2           0               3
           07:15 AM              0            0              0              0              1              0             0        0         0             0             5           0               6
           07:30 AM              0            0              0              0              1              0             0        0         0             0             1           0               2
           07:45 AM              0            0              0              0              2              0             0        0         0             0             1           0               3
               Total             0            0              0              0              5              0             0        0         0             0             9           0              14

           08:00 AM              0            0              0              0              2              0             0        0         0             0             1           0                3
           08:15 AM              0            0              0              0              3              0             0        0         0             0             0           0                3
           08:30 AM              0            0              0              0              2              0             0        0         0             0             1           0                3
           08:45 AM              0            0              0              0              0              0             0        0         0             0             0           0                0
               Total             0            0              0              0              7              0             0        0         0             0             2           0                9

        Grand Total              0            0              0              0           12                0             0        0         0             0          11             0              23
          Apprch %               0            0              0              0          100                0             0        0         0             0         100             0
           Total %               0            0              0              0          52.2               0             0        0         0             0         47.8            0




                    Commonwealth Ave Carriage Road                          Auburn Street                     Commonwealth Ave Carriage Road                   Auburn Street
                               From North                                    From East                                From South                                From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total          Right      Thru     Left        App. Total    Right Thru      Left App. Total   Right         Thru     Left   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:00 AM
    07:00 AM         0       0       0        0       0                       1          0               1        0         0      0        0       0            2         0           2           3
    07:15 AM         0       0       0        0       0                       1          0               1        0         0      0        0       0            5         0           5           6
    07:30 AM         0       0       0        0       0                       1          0               1        0         0      0        0       0            1         0           1           2
    07:45 AM         0       0       0        0       0                       2          0               2        0         0      0        0       0            1         0           1           3
 Total Volume        0       0       0        0       0                       5          0               5        0         0      0        0       0            9         0           9          14
 % App. Total        0       0       0                0                     100          0                        0         0      0                0          100         0
          PHF    .000     .000    .000     .000    .000                    .625       .000           .625      .000      .000   .000     .000    .000         .450      .000       .450        .583
N/S: Commonwealth Ave Carriage Road                                              PRECISION                                                          File Name          : 112738 E
E/W: Auburn Street                                                               D A T A                                                            Site Code          : 10865
                                                                                 INDUSTRIES, LLC
City, State: Newton, MA                                                       P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
                                                                                                                                                    Start Date         : 12/15/2011
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                   Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                             Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                    Page No            :1
                                                                       Groups Printed- Peds and Bicycles
                    Commonwealth Ave Carriage Road               Auburn Street              Commonwealth Ave Carriage Road                         Auburn Street
                            From North                            From East                            From South                                   From West
       Start Time    Right  Thru      Left     Peds      Right    Thru      Left    Peds     Right     Thru     Left   Peds              Right      Thru      Left     Peds         Int. Total
      07:00 AM          0        0        0        2         0       0           0            1          0        0         0      0        0           0       0          1                4
      07:15 AM          0        0        1        1         0       0           0            1          0        0         0      0        0           0       0          2                5
      07:30 AM          0        0        0        1         0       0           0            1          0        0         0      0        0           0       0          0                2
      07:45 AM          0        0        0        1         0       0           0            3          0        0         0      0        0           0       0          0                4
          Total         0        0        1        5         0       0           0            6          0        0         0      0        0           0       0          3               15

      08:00 AM          0        0        0        1         0       0           0            0          0        0         0      0        0           0       0          0                 1
      08:15 AM          0        0        0        1         0       0           0            1          0        0         0      0        0           0       0          0                 2
      08:30 AM          0        0        0        0         0       0           0            0          0        0         0      0        0           0       0          0                 0
      08:45 AM          0        0        0        0         0       0           0            0          0        0         0      0        0           0       0          0                 0
          Total         0        0        0        2         0       0           0            1          0        0         0      0        0           0       0          0                 3

   Grand Total          0        0        1        7         0       0           0         7             0        0         0      0        0           0       0         3                18
     Apprch %           0        0     12.5     87.5         0       0           0      100              0        0         0      0        0           0       0      100
      Total %           0        0      5.6     38.9         0       0           0      38.9             0        0         0      0        0           0       0      16.7




                  Commonwealth Ave Carriage Road                Auburn Street                      Commonwealth Ave Carriage Road                   Auburn Street
                             From North                           From East                                  From South                               From West
   Start Time Right Thru        Left Peds App. Total Right   Thru    Left Peds       App. Total   Right Thru    Left Peds App. Total    Right    Thru    Left Peds     App. Total    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:00 AM
  07:00 AM      0       0     0     2        2     0  0    0    1                           1        0       0        0     0      0       0       0        0      1           1           4
  07:15 AM      0       0     1                                                                                                                                    2           2           5
  07:30 AM      0       0     0     1        1     0  0    0    1                           1        0    0          0       0     0       0        0      0       0           0           2
  07:45 AM      0       0     0     1        1     0  0    0    3                           3        0    0          0       0     0       0        0      0       0           0           4
 Total Volume   0       0     1     5        6     0  0    0    6                           6        0    0          0       0     0       0        0      0       3           3          15
 % App. Total   0       0 16.7 83.3                0  0    0 100                                     0    0          0       0             0        0      0     100
        PHF .000 .000 .250 .625          .750 .000 .000 .000 .500                      .500       .000 .000       .000    .000   .000   .000     .000   .000    .375     .375          .750
N/S: Commonwealth Ave Carriage Road                                                              PRECISION                                                                  File Name               : 112738 E
E/W: Auburn Street                                                                               D A T A                                                                    Site Code               : 10865
                                                                                                 INDUSTRIES, LLC
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                       P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
                                                                                                                                                                            Start Date              : 12/15/2011
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                   Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                             Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                            Page No                 :1


                    Commonwealth Ave Carriage Road                               Auburn Street                    Commonwealth Ave Carriage Road                         Auburn Street
                               From North                                         From East                               From South                                      From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total                  Right   Thru     Left     App. Total      Right Thru      Left App. Total        Right          Thru     Left           App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
    08:00 AM         0       0       0        0        3                          101        0          104           1         0       1        2           0             97                1         98         204
     08:15 AM        0       0       0        0        1                          103        0          104           4         1       0        5           0           101                 0        101         210
     08:30 AM        0       0       0        0        0                            84       0           84           5         1       0        6           0             93                0         93         183
     08:45 AM        0       0       0        0        5                          107        0          112           4         0       0        4           0           123                 0        123         239
 Total Volume        0       0       0        0        9                          395        0          404          14         2       1       17           0           414                 1        415         836
  % App. Total       0       0       0               2.2                         97.8        0                     82.4      11.8     5.9                    0          99.8               0.2
           PHF    .000    .000    .000     .000    .450                          .923     .000          .902       .700      .500   .250     .708         .000          .841             .250        .843        .874
           Cars      0       0       0        0        9                          388        0           397         14         2       1      17            0           412                 1        413         827
       % Cars        0       0       0        0     100                          98.2        0          98.3        100       100    100      100            0          99.5              100        99.5        98.9
 Heavy Vehicles      0       0       0        0        0                             7       0              7         0         0       0       0            0              2                0           2          9
 % Heavy Vehicles    0       0       0        0        0                           1.8       0            1.7         0         0       0       0            0            0.5                0         0.5        1.1

                                                                                         Commonwealth Ave Carriage Road
                                                                                             Out      In      Total
                                                                                               12        0       12
                                                                                                 0       0        0
                                                                                               12        0       12


                                                                                                     0     0          0
                                                                                                     0     0          0
                                                                                                     0     0          0
                                                                                                 Right Thru       Left




                                                                                          Peak Hour Data
                                                    802
                                                       9
                                                    811
                                                   Total




                                                                                                                                                              Out
                                                               1
                                                               0
                                                               1




                                                                                                                                                               428

                                                                                                                                                               426
                                                                                                                                            Right Thru
                                                           Left




                                                                                                                                                                  2
                                                                                                         North
                                                                                                                                                                   Auburn Street
                                     Auburn Street




                                                                                                                                                9
                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                9
                                            413
                                              2
                                            415




                                                                                           Peak Hour Begins at 08:00 AM
                                                                  412
                                                                     2
                                                                  414
                                                           Right Thru
                                           In




                                                                                                                                                                        In
                                                                                                                                                   395

                                                                                                                                                   388


                                                                                                                                                                         404

                                                                                                                                                                         397



                                                                                           Cars
                                                                                                                                                      7




                                                                                                                                                                           7




                                                                                           Heavy Vehicles
                                                               0
                                                               0
                                                               0




                                                                                                                                            Left
                                  389
                                     7
                                  396
                                 Out




                                                                                                                                                                                 Total
                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                0


                                                                                                                                                                                  832

                                                                                                                                                                                  823
                                                                                                                                                                                     9




                                                                                                 Left Thru Right
                                                                                                     1    2   14
                                                                                                     0    0    0
                                                                                                     1    2   14


                                                                                                   0    17       17
                                                                                                   0     0        0
                                                                                                   0    17       17
                                                                                             Out      In      Total
                                                                                         Commonwealth Ave Carriage Road
N/S: Commonwealth Ave Carriage Road                                                           PRECISION                                                         File Name           : 112738 EE
E/W: Auburn Street                                                                            D A T A                                                           Site Code           : 10865
                                                                                              INDUSTRIES, LLC
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                   P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
                                                                                                                                                                Start Date          : 12/15/2011
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                               Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                         Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                Page No             :1
                                                                                   Groups Printed- Cars - Heavy Vehicles
                            Commonwealth Ave Carriage                                                        Commonwealth Ave Carriage
                                                                                 Auburn Street                                                               Auburn Street
                                      Road                                                                               Road
                                                                                  From East                                                                   From West
                                   From North                                                                         From South
             Start Time      Right      Thru        Left                 Right         Thru         Left       Right       Thru      Left         Right               Thru        Left        Int. Total
           04:00 PM              0            0              0              5           73                0             2         0        0             0             64            1            145
           04:15 PM              0            0              0              9           82                0             1         0        0             0             85            2            179
           04:30 PM              0            0              0              5           80                0             2         0        0             0             66            1            154
           04:45 PM              0            0              0              1           92                0             1         0        0             0             87            0            181
               Total             0            0              0             20          327                0             6         0        0             0            302            4            659

           05:00 PM              0            0              0              1           94                0             0         0        0             0             85            1            181
           05:15 PM              0            0              0              1           81                0             2         2        1             0            104            0            191
           05:30 PM              0            0              0              1           99                0             2         1        2             0             84            3            192
           05:45 PM              0            0              0              5           62                0             1         1        1             0             90            0            160
               Total             0            0              0              8          336                0             5         4        4             0            363            4            724

      Grand Total                0            0              0            28           663                0         11             4       4             0         665              8            1383
        Apprch %                 0            0              0            4.1          95.9               0        57.9         21.1    21.1             0         98.8           1.2
          Total %                0            0              0              2          47.9               0         0.8          0.3     0.3             0         48.1           0.6
            Cars                 0            0              0            28           658                0         11             4       4             0         660              8            1373
          % Cars                 0            0              0           100           99.2               0        100          100     100              0         99.2           100             99.3
   Heavy Vehicles                0            0              0              0             5               0           0            0       0             0            5             0              10
 % Heavy Vehicles                0            0              0              0           0.8               0           0            0       0             0          0.8             0              0.7




                    Commonwealth Ave Carriage Road                          Auburn Street                     Commonwealth Ave Carriage Road                   Auburn Street
                               From North                                    From East                                From South                                From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total          Right      Thru     Left        App. Total    Right Thru      Left App. Total   Right         Thru     Left     App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:45 PM
    04:45 PM         0       0       0        0        1                      92         0             93         1         0       0       1       0            87          0         87         181
     05:00 PM        0       0       0        0        1                      94         0             95         0         0       0       0       0            85          1         86         181
     05:15 PM        0       0       0        0        1                      81         0             82         2         2       1       5       0          104           0        104         191
     05:30 PM        0       0       0        0        1                     99          0            100         2         1       2       5       0            84          3         87         192
 Total Volume        0       0       0        0        4                    366          0            370         5         3       3      11       0          360           4        364         745
  % App. Total       0       0       0               1.1                   98.9          0                     45.5      27.3    27.3               0         98.9         1.1
           PHF    .000    .000    .000     .000    1.00                    .924       .000           .925      .625      .375    .375    .550    .000         .865       .333        .875        .970
           Cars      0       0       0        0        4                    365          0            369         5         3       3      11       0          358           4        362         742
       % Cars        0       0       0        0     100                    99.7          0           99.7       100       100     100     100       0         99.4        100        99.5        99.6
 Heavy Vehicles      0       0       0        0        0                       1         0               1        0         0       0       0       0             2          0           2          3
 % Heavy Vehicles    0       0       0        0        0                     0.3         0             0.3        0         0       0       0       0           0.6          0         0.5        0.4
N/S: Commonwealth Ave Carriage Road                                                           PRECISION                                                         File Name         : 112738 EE
E/W: Auburn Street                                                                            D A T A                                                           Site Code         : 10865
                                                                                              INDUSTRIES, LLC
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                   P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
                                                                                                                                                                Start Date        : 12/15/2011
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                               Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                         Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                Page No           :1
                                                                                          Groups Printed- Cars
                            Commonwealth Ave Carriage                                                      Commonwealth Ave Carriage
                                                                                 Auburn Street                                                               Auburn Street
                                      Road                                                                            Road
                                                                                  From East                                                                   From West
                                   From North                                                                      From South
             Start Time      Right      Thru        Left                 Right         Thru       Left       Right      Thru       Left           Right              Thru       Left        Int. Total
           04:00 PM              0            0              0              5           72                0             2         0        0             0            63           1            143
           04:15 PM              0            0              0              9           80                0             1         0        0             0            84           2            176
           04:30 PM              0            0              0              5           79                0             2         0        0             0            66           1            153
           04:45 PM              0            0              0              1           92                0             1         0        0             0            87           0            181
               Total             0            0              0             20          323                0             6         0        0             0           300           4            653

           05:00 PM              0            0              0              1           94                0             0         0        0             0            84           1            180
           05:15 PM              0            0              0              1           81                0             2         2        1             0           104           0            191
           05:30 PM              0            0              0              1           98                0             2         1        2             0            83           3            190
           05:45 PM              0            0              0              5           62                0             1         1        1             0            89           0            159
               Total             0            0              0              8          335                0             5         4        4             0           360           4            720

        Grand Total              0            0              0            28           658                0         11             4       4             0         660            8            1373
          Apprch %               0            0              0            4.1          95.9               0        57.9         21.1    21.1             0         98.8         1.2
           Total %               0            0              0              2          47.9               0         0.8          0.3     0.3             0         48.1         0.6




                    Commonwealth Ave Carriage Road                          Auburn Street                     Commonwealth Ave Carriage Road                   Auburn Street
                               From North                                    From East                                From South                                From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total          Right      Thru     Left        App. Total    Right Thru      Left App. Total   Right         Thru     Left   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:45 PM
    04:45 PM         0       0       0        0       1                      92          0             93         1         0       0       1       0           87         0         87         181
    05:00 PM         0       0       0        0       1                      94          0             95         0         0       0       0       0           84         1         85         180
    05:15 PM         0       0       0        0       1                      81          0             82         2         2       1       5       0          104         0        104         191
    05:30 PM         0       0       0        0       1                      98          0             99         2         1       2       5       0           83         3         86         190
 Total Volume        0       0       0        0       4                     365          0            369         5         3       3      11       0          358         4        362         742
 % App. Total        0       0       0              1.1                    98.9          0                     45.5      27.3    27.3               0         98.9       1.1
          PHF    .000     .000    .000     .000    1.00                    .931       .000           .932      .625      .375    .375    .550    .000         .861      .333       .870        .971
N/S: Commonwealth Ave Carriage Road                                                            PRECISION                                                        File Name         : 112738 EE
E/W: Auburn Street                                                                             D A T A                                                          Site Code         : 10865
                                                                                               INDUSTRIES, LLC
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                   P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
                                                                                                                                                                Start Date        : 12/15/2011
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                               Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                         Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                Page No           :1
                                                                                      Groups Printed- Heavy Vehicles
                            Commonwealth Ave Carriage                                                       Commonwealth Ave Carriage
                                                                                 Auburn Street                                                               Auburn Street
                                      Road                                                                              Road
                                                                                  From East                                                                   From West
                                   From North                                                                        From South
             Start Time      Right      Thru        Left                 Right         Thru         Left      Right       Thru      Left          Right              Thru       Left        Int. Total
           04:00 PM              0            0              0              0              1              0             0        0         0             0             1           0                2
           04:15 PM              0            0              0              0              2              0             0        0         0             0             1           0                3
           04:30 PM              0            0              0              0              1              0             0        0         0             0             0           0                1
           04:45 PM              0            0              0              0              0              0             0        0         0             0             0           0                0
               Total             0            0              0              0              4              0             0        0         0             0             2           0                6

           05:00 PM              0            0              0              0              0              0             0        0         0             0             1           0                1
           05:15 PM              0            0              0              0              0              0             0        0         0             0             0           0                0
           05:30 PM              0            0              0              0              1              0             0        0         0             0             1           0                2
           05:45 PM              0            0              0              0              0              0             0        0         0             0             1           0                1
               Total             0            0              0              0              1              0             0        0         0             0             3           0                4

        Grand Total              0            0              0              0            5                0             0        0         0             0             5           0              10
          Apprch %               0            0              0              0          100                0             0        0         0             0           100           0
           Total %               0            0              0              0           50                0             0        0         0             0            50           0




                    Commonwealth Ave Carriage Road                          Auburn Street                     Commonwealth Ave Carriage Road                   Auburn Street
                               From North                                    From East                                From South                                From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total          Right      Thru     Left        App. Total    Right Thru      Left App. Total   Right         Thru     Left   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:00 PM
    04:00 PM         0       0       0        0       0                       1          0               1        0         0      0        0       0            1         0           1            2
    04:15 PM         0       0       0        0       0                       2          0               2        0         0      0        0       0            1         0           1            3
    04:30 PM         0       0       0        0       0                       1          0               1        0         0      0        0       0            0         0           0            1
    04:45 PM         0       0       0        0       0                       0          0               0        0         0      0        0       0            0         0           0            0
 Total Volume        0       0       0        0       0                       4          0               4        0         0      0        0       0            2         0           2            6
 % App. Total        0       0       0                0                     100          0                        0         0      0                0          100         0
          PHF    .000     .000    .000     .000    .000                    .500       .000           .500      .000      .000   .000     .000    .000         .500      .000       .500        .500
N/S: Commonwealth Ave Carriage Road                                              PRECISION                                                         File Name        : 112738 EE
E/W: Auburn Street                                                               D A T A                                                           Site Code        : 10865
                                                                                 INDUSTRIES, LLC
City, State: Newton, MA                                                       P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
                                                                                                                                                   Start Date       : 12/15/2011
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                   Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                             Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                   Page No          :1
                                                                       Groups Printed- Peds and Bicycles
                    Commonwealth Ave Carriage Road               Auburn Street              Commonwealth Ave Carriage Road                        Auburn Street
                            From North                            From East                            From South                                  From West
       Start Time    Right  Thru      Left     Peds      Right    Thru      Left    Peds     Right     Thru     Left   Peds             Right      Thru      Left   Peds         Int. Total
      04:00 PM          0        0        0        0         0       0           0            0        0           0       0      1        0           0       0        0                 1
      04:15 PM          0        0        0        1         0       0           0            0        0           1       0      0        0           0       0        0                 2
      04:30 PM          0        0        0        0         0       0           0            0        0           0       0      0        0           0       0        0                 0
      04:45 PM          0        1        0        1         0       0           0            0        0           0       0      0        0           0       0        0                 2
          Total         0        1        0        2         0       0           0            0        0           1       0      1        0           0       0        0                 5

      05:00 PM          0        0        0        1         0       0           0            1        0           0       0      0        0           0       0        0                 2
      05:15 PM          0        0        0        0         0       0           0            1        0           0       0      0        0           0       0        0                 1
      05:30 PM          0        0        0        0         0       0           0            2        0           0       0      0        0           0       0        0                 2
      05:45 PM          0        0        0        0         0       0           0            0        0           0       0      0        0           0       0        0                 0
          Total         0        0        0        1         0       0           0            4        0           0       0      0        0           0       0        0                 5

   Grand Total          0        1        0        3         0       0           0         4           0           1       0      1        0           0       0        0               10
     Apprch %           0       25        0       75         0       0           0       100           0          50       0     50        0           0       0        0
      Total %           0       10        0       30         0       0           0        40           0          10       0     10        0           0       0        0




                  Commonwealth Ave Carriage Road                Auburn Street                      Commonwealth Ave Carriage Road                  Auburn Street
                             From North                           From East                                  From South                              From West
   Start Time Right Thru        Left Peds App. Total Right   Thru    Left Peds       App. Total   Right Thru    Left Peds App. Total   Right    Thru    Left Peds   App. Total    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:45 PM
  04:45 PM      0       1     0     1        2     0  0    0    0                           0        0    0          0      0     0       0        0      0    0            0            2
  05:00 PM      0       0     0     1        1     0  0    0    1                           1        0    0          0      0     0       0        0      0    0            0            2
  05:15 PM      0       0     0     0        0     0  0    0    1                           1        0    0          0      0     0       0        0      0    0            0            1
  05:30 PM      0       0     0     0        0     0  0    0    2                           2        0    0          0      0     0       0        0      0    0            0            2
 Total Volume   0       1     0     2        3     0  0    0    4                           4        0    0          0      0     0       0        0      0    0            0            7
 % App. Total   0 33.3        0 66.7               0  0    0 100                                     0    0          0      0             0        0      0    0
        PHF .000 .250 .000 .500          .375 .000 .000 .000 .500                      .500       .000 .000       .000   .000   .000   .000     .000   .000 .000      .000          .875
N/S: Commonwealth Ave Carriage Road                                                              PRECISION                                                                  File Name               : 112738 EE
E/W: Auburn Street                                                                               D A T A                                                                    Site Code               : 10865
                                                                                                 INDUSTRIES, LLC
City, State: Newton, MA                                                                       P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
                                                                                                                                                                            Start Date              : 12/15/2011
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                                   Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                             Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                                            Page No                 :1


                    Commonwealth Ave Carriage Road                               Auburn Street                    Commonwealth Ave Carriage Road                         Auburn Street
                               From North                                         From East                               From South                                      From West
      Start Time     Right    Thru      Left App. Total                  Right   Thru     Left     App. Total      Right Thru      Left App. Total        Right          Thru     Left           App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:45 PM
    04:45 PM         0       0       0        0        1                            92       0           93           1         0      0         1           0             87                0         87         181
     05:00 PM        0       0       0        0        1                            94       0           95           0         0      0         0           0             85                1         86         181
     05:15 PM        0       0       0        0        1                            81       0           82           2         2      1         5           0           104                 0        104         191
     05:30 PM        0       0       0        0        1                           99        0          100           2         1      2         5           0             84                3         87         192
 Total Volume        0       0       0        0        4                          366        0          370           5         3      3        11           0           360                 4        364         745
  % App. Total       0       0       0               1.1                         98.9        0                     45.5      27.3   27.3                     0          98.9               1.1
           PHF    .000    .000    .000     .000    1.00                          .924     .000          .925       .625      .375   .375     .550         .000          .865             .333        .875        .970
           Cars      0       0       0        0        4                          365        0           369          5         3      3       11            0           358                 4        362         742
       % Cars        0       0       0        0     100                          99.7        0          99.7        100       100    100      100            0          99.4              100        99.5        99.6
 Heavy Vehicles      0       0       0        0        0                             1       0              1         0         0      0        0            0              2                0           2          3
 % Heavy Vehicles    0       0       0        0        0                           0.3       0            0.3         0         0      0        0            0            0.6                0         0.5        0.4

                                                                                         Commonwealth Ave Carriage Road
                                                                                             Out      In      Total
                                                                                               11        0       11
                                                                                                 0       0        0
                                                                                               11        0       11


                                                                                                     0     0          0
                                                                                                     0     0          0
                                                                                                     0     0          0
                                                                                                 Right Thru       Left




                                                                                          Peak Hour Data
                                                    730
                                                       3
                                                    733
                                                   Total




                                                                                                                                                              Out
                                                               4
                                                               0
                                                               4




                                                                                                                                                               365

                                                                                                                                                               363
                                                                                                                                            Right Thru
                                                           Left




                                                                                                                                                                  2
                                                                                                         North
                                                                                                                                                                   Auburn Street
                                     Auburn Street




                                                                                                                                                4
                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                4
                                            362
                                              2
                                            364




                                                                                           Peak Hour Begins at 04:45 PM
                                                                  358
                                                                     2
                                                                  360
                                                           Right Thru
                                           In




                                                                                                                                                                        In
                                                                                                                                                   366

                                                                                                                                                   365


                                                                                                                                                                         370

                                                                                                                                                                         369



                                                                                           Cars
                                                                                                                                                      1




                                                                                                                                                                           1




                                                                                           Heavy Vehicles
                                                               0
                                                               0
                                                               0




                                                                                                                                            Left
                                  368
                                     1
                                  369
                                 Out




                                                                                                                                                                                 Total
                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                0


                                                                                                                                                                                  735

                                                                                                                                                                                  732
                                                                                                                                                                                     3




                                                                                                 Left Thru Right
                                                                                                     3    3    5
                                                                                                     0    0    0
                                                                                                     3    3    5


                                                                                                   0    11       11
                                                                                                   0     0        0
                                                                                                   0    11       11
                                                                                             Out      In      Total
                                                                                         Commonwealth Ave Carriage Road
N/S: Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                                              PRECISION                                                         File Name      : 112738 F
W: Parish of the Messiah Driveway                                                D A T A                                                           Site Code      : 10865
                                                                                 INDUSTRIES, LLC
City, State: Newton, MA                                                       P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
                                                                                                                                                   Start Date     : 12/15/2011
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                   Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                             Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                   Page No        :1
                                                                   Groups Printed- Cars - Heavy Vehicles
                                        Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)     Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                 Parish of the Messiah Driveway
                                                From North                             From South                                    From West
                           Start Time          Right               Thru                Thru              Left                       Right               Left           Int. Total
                         07:00 AM                    1                  136                    70                   0                 0                   0                207
                         07:15 AM                    0                  164                    90                   1                 0                   0                255
                         07:30 AM                    2                  123                   124                   5                 0                   0                254
                         07:45 AM                    4                  155                   141                   4                 0                   0                304
                             Total                   7                  578                   425                  10                 0                   0               1020

                         08:00 AM                    6                  125                   136                   4                 0                   0                271
                         08:15 AM                    4                  153                   146                   3                 0                   0                306
                         08:30 AM                    3                  141                   138                   5                 0                   0                287
                         08:45 AM                    2                  162                   134                   3                 0                   0                301
                             Total                  15                  581                   554                  15                 0                   0               1165

                     Grand Total                    22              1159                     979                  25                  0                   0               2185
                       Apprch %                     1.9              98.1                    97.5                 2.5                 0                   0
                         Total %                      1               53                     44.8                 1.1                 0                   0
                           Cars                     22              1102                     935                  24                  0                   0               2083
                         % Cars                    100               95.1                    95.5                 96                  0                   0                95.3
                  Heavy Vehicles                      0               57                       44                   1                 0                   0                102
                % Heavy Vehicles                      0               4.9                     4.5                   4                 0                   0                 4.7




                                Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                 Parish of the Messiah Driveway
                                           From North                                 From South                                        From West
                Start Time        Right          Thru      App. Total           Thru        Left       App. Total            Right           Left       App. Total     Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
            07:45 AM               4        155                 159              141                 4            145            0             0                 0         304
             08:00 AM              6        125                 131              136                 4            140            0             0                 0         271
             08:15 AM              4        153                 157              146                 3            149            0             0                 0         306
             08:30 AM              3        141                 144              138                 5            143            0             0                 0         287
        Total Volume              17        574                 591              561                16            577            0             0                 0        1168
         % App. Total            2.9       97.1                                 97.2               2.8                           0             0
                  PHF          .708        .926                 .929            .961             .800             .968        .000          .000               .000        .954
                  Cars            17        548                  565             539               16              555           0             0                  0       1120
               % Cars           100        95.5                 95.6            96.1              100             96.2           0             0                  0        95.9
       Heavy Vehicles              0         26                   26               22                0               22          0             0                  0          48
     % Heavy Vehicles              0         4.5                 4.4              3.9                0              3.8          0             0                  0         4.1
N/S: Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                                              PRECISION                                                        File Name      : 112738 F
W: Parish of the Messiah Driveway                                                D A T A                                                          Site Code      : 10865
                                                                                 INDUSTRIES, LLC
City, State: Newton, MA                                                       P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
                                                                                                                                                  Start Date     : 12/15/2011
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                   Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                             Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                  Page No        :1
                                                                                Groups Printed- Cars
                                        Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)          Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)           Parish of the Messiah Driveway
                                                From North                                 From South                               From West
                           Start Time          Right               Thru                    Thru             Left                   Right               Left           Int. Total
                         07:00 AM                    1                  127                    67                   0                0                   0                 195
                         07:15 AM                    0                  153                    82                   0                0                   0                 235
                         07:30 AM                    2                  116                   117                   5                0                   0                 240
                         07:45 AM                    4                  148                   135                   4                0                   0                 291
                             Total                   7                  544                   401                   9                0                   0                 961

                         08:00 AM                    6                  117                   132                  4                 0                   0                259
                         08:15 AM                    4                  147                   139                  3                 0                   0                293
                         08:30 AM                    3                  136                   133                  5                 0                   0                277
                         08:45 AM                    2                  158                   130                  3                 0                   0                293
                             Total                  15                  558                   534                 15                 0                   0               1122

                       Grand Total                  22              1102                     935                  24                 0                   0               2083
                         Apprch %                    2                98                     97.5                 2.5                0                   0
                          Total %                  1.1               52.9                    44.9                 1.2                0                   0




                                Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                Parish of the Messiah Driveway
                                           From North                                 From South                                       From West
                Start Time        Right          Thru      App. Total           Thru        Left       App. Total           Right           Left       App. Total     Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
            08:00 AM              6         117                 123              132                 4            136           0             0                 0         259
             08:15 AM             4         147                 151              139                 3            142           0             0                 0         293
             08:30 AM             3         136                 139              133                 5            138           0             0                 0         277
             08:45 AM             2         158                 160              130                 3            133           0             0                 0         293
        Total Volume             15         558                 573              534                15            549           0             0                 0        1122
         % App. Total           2.6        97.4                                 97.3               2.7                          0             0
                  PHF          .625        .883                 .895            .960             .750             .967       .000          .000               .000        .957
N/S: Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                                               PRECISION                                                        File Name      : 112738 F
W: Parish of the Messiah Driveway                                                 D A T A                                                          Site Code      : 10865
                                                                                  INDUSTRIES, LLC
City, State: Newton, MA                                                        P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
                                                                                                                                                   Start Date     : 12/15/2011
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                    Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                              Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                   Page No        :1
                                                                       Groups Printed- Heavy Vehicles
                                        Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)      Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                Parish of the Messiah Driveway
                                                From North                              From South                                   From West
                           Start Time          Right               Thru                 Thru            Left                        Right               Left           Int. Total
                         07:00 AM                    0                    9                      3                   0                0                   0                  12
                         07:15 AM                    0                   11                      8                   1                0                   0                  20
                         07:30 AM                    0                    7                      7                   0                0                   0                  14
                         07:45 AM                    0                    7                      6                   0                0                   0                  13
                             Total                   0                   34                     24                   1                0                   0                  59

                         08:00 AM                    0                    8                      4                   0                0                   0                  12
                         08:15 AM                    0                    6                      7                   0                0                   0                  13
                         08:30 AM                    0                    5                      5                   0                0                   0                  10
                         08:45 AM                    0                    4                      4                   0                0                   0                   8
                             Total                   0                   23                     20                   0                0                   0                  43

                       Grand Total                   0                   57                     44                   1                0                   0                 102
                         Apprch %                    0                  100                   97.8                 2.2                0                   0
                          Total %                    0                  55.9                  43.1                   1                0                   0




                                Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                 Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                Parish of the Messiah Driveway
                                           From North                                  From South                                       From West
                Start Time        Right          Thru      App. Total            Thru        Left       App. Total           Right           Left       App. Total     Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:00 AM
            07:00 AM              0           9                    9                3                0               3           0             0                 0           12
            07:15 AM              0          11                   11                8                1               9           0             0                 0           20
             07:30 AM             0           7                    7                7                0               7           0             0                 0           14
             07:45 AM             0           7                    7                6                0               6           0             0                 0           13
        Total Volume              0          34                   34               24                1              25           0             0                 0           59
        % App. Total              0         100                                    96                4                           0             0
                  PHF          .000        .773                 .773             .750             .250             .694       .000          .000               .000        .738
N/S: Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                                                 PRECISION                                                    File Name          : 112738 F
W: Parish of the Messiah Driveway                                                   D A T A                                                      Site Code          : 10865
                                                                                    INDUSTRIES, LLC
City, State: Newton, MA                                                          P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
                                                                                                                                                 Start Date         : 12/15/2011
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                      Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                 Page No            :1
                                                                            Groups Printed- Peds and Bicycles
                                  Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)               Parish of the Messiah Driveway
                                          From North                                        From South                                  From West
                  Start Time        Right         Thru         Peds                 Thru            Left      Peds            Right            Left         Peds         Int. Total
                 07:00 AM                0              1               0                0                 0           1           0             0              1               3
                 07:15 AM                0              0               0                0                 0           1           0             0              0               1
                 07:30 AM                0              0               1                0                 0           1           0             0              1               3
                 07:45 AM                0              0               1                0                 0           4           0             0              0               5
                     Total               0              1               2                0                 0           7           0             0              2              12

                 08:00 AM                0              0               2                1                 0           0           0             0              2                5
                 08:15 AM                0              0               1                0                 0           0           0             0              0                1
                 08:30 AM                0              0               0                0                 0           0           0             0              1                1
                 08:45 AM                0              0               1                0                 0           0           0             0              1                2
                     Total               0              0               4                1                 0           0           0             0              4                9

              Grand Total                0             1              6                1                   0            7          0             0             6               21
                Apprch %                 0          14.3           85.7             12.5                   0         87.5          0             0          100
                 Total %                 0           4.8           28.6              4.8                   0         33.3          0             0          28.6




                             Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                   Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                    Parish of the Messiah Driveway
                                        From North                                    From South                                           From West
           Start Time      Right       Thru      Peds      App. Total        Thru    Left      Peds     App. Total          Right         Left      Peds    App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:15 AM
        07:15 AM           0         0         0                   0            0            0             1            1      0          0          0               0          1
        07:30 AM           0         0         1                   1            0            0             1            1      0          0          1               1          3
        07:45 AM           0         0         1                   1            0            0             4            4      0          0          0               0          5
        08:00 AM           0         0         2                   2            1            0             0            1      0          0          2               2          5
     Total Volume          0         0         4                   4            1            0             6            7      0          0          3               3         14
     % App. Total          0         0       100                             14.3            0          85.7                   0          0        100
              PHF       .000      .000      .500                .500         .250         .000          .375         .438   .000       .000       .375           .375        .700
N/S: Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                                                   PRECISION                                                     File Name      : 112738 F
W: Parish of the Messiah Driveway                                                     D A T A                                                       Site Code      : 10865
                                                                                      INDUSTRIES, LLC
City, State: Newton, MA                                                            P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
                                                                                                                                                    Start Date     : 12/15/2011
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                        Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                  Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                    Page No        :1


                                Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                    Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)               Parish of the Messiah Driveway
                                           From North                                     From South                                      From West
                Start Time        Right          Thru      App. Total               Thru        Left       App. Total          Right           Left       App. Total    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
            07:45 AM               4        155                        159            141                 4            145        0             0                 0         304
             08:00 AM              6        125                        131            136                 4            140        0             0                 0         271
             08:15 AM              4        153                        157            146                 3            149        0             0                 0         306
             08:30 AM              3        141                        144            138                 5            143        0             0                 0         287
        Total Volume              17        574                        591            561                16            577        0             0                 0        1168
         % App. Total            2.9       97.1                                      97.2               2.8                       0             0
                  PHF          .708        .926                        .929          .961             .800             .968    .000          .000              .000         .954
                  Cars            17        548                         565           539               16              555       0             0                 0        1120
               % Cars           100        95.5                        95.6          96.1              100             96.2       0             0                 0         95.9
       Heavy Vehicles              0         26                          26             22                0               22      0             0                 0           48
     % Heavy Vehicles              0         4.5                        4.4            3.9                0              3.8      0             0                 0          4.1

                                                                              Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)
                                                                                 Out       In      Total
                                                                                  539       565    1104
                                                                                   22        26       48
                                                                                  561       591    1152


                                                                                             17  548
                                                                                              0   26
                                                                                             17  574
                                                                                          Right Thru




                                                                               Peak Hour Data
                              Parish of the Messiah Driveway

                                                         33
                                                          0
                                                         33
                                                      Total




                                                                                              North
                                                                   0
                                                                   0
                                                                   0
                                                               Left
                                                 0
                                                 0
                                                 0




                                                                                Peak Hour Begins at 07:45 AM
                                              In




                                                                   0
                                                                   0
                                                                   0
                                                               Right




                                                                                Cars
                                                                                Heavy Vehicles
                                     33
                                       0
                                     33
                                   Out




                                                                                          Left Thru
                                                                                            16  539
                                                                                              0  22
                                                                                            16  561


                                                                                  548       555    1103
                                                                                   26        22       48
                                                                                  574       577    1151
                                                                                 Out       In      Total
                                                                              Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)
N/S: Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                                              PRECISION                                                         File Name      : 112738 FF
W: Parish of the Messiah Driveway                                                D A T A                                                           Site Code      : 10865
                                                                                 INDUSTRIES, LLC
City, State: Newton, MA                                                       P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
                                                                                                                                                   Start Date     : 12/15/2011
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                   Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                             Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                   Page No        :1
                                                                   Groups Printed- Cars - Heavy Vehicles
                                        Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)     Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                 Parish of the Messiah Driveway
                                                From North                             From South                                    From West
                           Start Time          Right               Thru                Thru              Left                       Right               Left           Int. Total
                         04:00 PM                    0                  136                   141                   1                 0                   0                278
                         04:15 PM                    0                  117                   161                   0                 0                   0                278
                         04:30 PM                    1                  131                   126                   1                 0                   0                259
                         04:45 PM                    2                  149                   137                   0                 0                   0                288
                             Total                   3                  533                   565                   2                 0                   0               1103

                         05:00 PM                    2                  162                   149                   3                 0                   0                316
                         05:15 PM                    2                  151                   127                   6                 0                   0                286
                         05:30 PM                    2                  159                   135                   6                 0                   0                302
                         05:45 PM                    1                  165                   133                   6                 0                   0                305
                             Total                   7                  637                   544                  21                 0                   0               1209

                     Grand Total                     10             1170                    1109                   23                 0                   0               2312
                       Apprch %                     0.8              99.2                     98                    2                 0                   0
                         Total %                    0.4              50.6                     48                    1                 0                   0
                           Cars                      10             1150                    1080                   23                 0                   0               2263
                         % Cars                    100               98.3                    97.4                 100                 0                   0                97.9
                  Heavy Vehicles                      0               20                      29                    0                 0                   0                 49
                % Heavy Vehicles                      0               1.7                     2.6                   0                 0                   0                 2.1




                                Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                 Parish of the Messiah Driveway
                                           From North                                 From South                                        From West
                Start Time        Right          Thru      App. Total           Thru        Left       App. Total            Right           Left       App. Total     Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
            05:00 PM               2        162                 164              149                 3            152            0             0                 0         316
             05:15 PM              2        151                 153              127                 6            133            0             0                 0         286
             05:30 PM              2        159                 161              135                 6            141            0             0                 0         302
             05:45 PM              1        165                 166              133                 6            139            0             0                 0         305
        Total Volume               7        637                 644              544                21            565            0             0                 0        1209
         % App. Total            1.1       98.9                                 96.3               3.7                           0             0
                  PHF          .875        .965                 .970            .913             .875             .929        .000          .000               .000        .956
                  Cars             7        627                  634             536               21              557           0             0                  0       1191
               % Cars           100        98.4                 98.4            98.5              100             98.6           0             0                  0        98.5
       Heavy Vehicles              0         10                   10                8                0                8          0             0                  0          18
     % Heavy Vehicles              0         1.6                 1.6              1.5                0              1.4          0             0                  0         1.5
N/S: Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                                              PRECISION                                                        File Name      : 112738 FF
W: Parish of the Messiah Driveway                                                D A T A                                                          Site Code      : 10865
                                                                                 INDUSTRIES, LLC
City, State: Newton, MA                                                       P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
                                                                                                                                                  Start Date     : 12/15/2011
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                   Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                             Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                  Page No        :1
                                                                                Groups Printed- Cars
                                        Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)          Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)           Parish of the Messiah Driveway
                                                From North                                 From South                               From West
                           Start Time          Right               Thru                    Thru             Left                   Right               Left           Int. Total
                         04:00 PM                    0                  133                   135                   1                0                   0                269
                         04:15 PM                    0                  116                   155                   0                0                   0                271
                         04:30 PM                    1                  126                   122                   1                0                   0                250
                         04:45 PM                    2                  148                   132                   0                0                   0                282
                             Total                   3                  523                   544                   2                0                   0               1072

                         05:00 PM                    2                  159                   148                  3                 0                   0                312
                         05:15 PM                    2                  149                   126                  6                 0                   0                283
                         05:30 PM                    2                  157                   132                  6                 0                   0                297
                         05:45 PM                    1                  162                   130                  6                 0                   0                299
                             Total                   7                  627                   536                 21                 0                   0               1191

                       Grand Total                  10              1150                    1080                  23                 0                   0               2263
                         Apprch %                  0.9               99.1                    97.9                 2.1                0                   0
                          Total %                  0.4               50.8                    47.7                   1                0                   0




                                Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                Parish of the Messiah Driveway
                                           From North                                 From South                                       From West
                Start Time        Right          Thru      App. Total           Thru        Left       App. Total           Right           Left       App. Total     Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
            05:00 PM              2         159                 161              148                 3            151           0             0                 0         312
             05:15 PM             2         149                 151              126                 6            132           0             0                 0         283
             05:30 PM             2         157                 159              132                 6            138           0             0                 0         297
             05:45 PM             1         162                 163              130                 6            136           0             0                 0         299
        Total Volume              7         627                 634              536                21            557           0             0                 0        1191
         % App. Total           1.1        98.9                                 96.2               3.8                          0             0
                  PHF          .875        .968                 .972            .905             .875             .922       .000          .000               .000        .954
N/S: Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                                               PRECISION                                                        File Name      : 112738 FF
W: Parish of the Messiah Driveway                                                 D A T A                                                          Site Code      : 10865
                                                                                  INDUSTRIES, LLC
City, State: Newton, MA                                                        P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
                                                                                                                                                   Start Date     : 12/15/2011
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                    Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                              Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                   Page No        :1
                                                                       Groups Printed- Heavy Vehicles
                                        Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)      Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                Parish of the Messiah Driveway
                                                From North                              From South                                   From West
                           Start Time          Right               Thru                 Thru            Left                        Right               Left           Int. Total
                         04:00 PM                    0                    3                      6                   0                0                   0                   9
                         04:15 PM                    0                    1                      6                   0                0                   0                   7
                         04:30 PM                    0                    5                      4                   0                0                   0                   9
                         04:45 PM                    0                    1                      5                   0                0                   0                   6
                             Total                   0                   10                     21                   0                0                   0                  31

                         05:00 PM                    0                    3                       1                  0                0                   0                   4
                         05:15 PM                    0                    2                       1                  0                0                   0                   3
                         05:30 PM                    0                    2                       3                  0                0                   0                   5
                         05:45 PM                    0                    3                       3                  0                0                   0                   6
                             Total                   0                   10                       8                  0                0                   0                  18

                       Grand Total                   0                   20                    29                    0                0                   0                  49
                         Apprch %                    0                  100                   100                    0                0                   0
                          Total %                    0                  40.8                  59.2                   0                0                   0




                                Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                 Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                Parish of the Messiah Driveway
                                           From North                                  From South                                       From West
                Start Time        Right          Thru      App. Total            Thru        Left       App. Total           Right           Left       App. Total     Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:00 PM
            04:00 PM              0           3                    3                6                0               6           0             0                 0            9
             04:15 PM             0           1                    1                6                0               6           0             0                 0            7
             04:30 PM             0           5                    5                4                0               4           0             0                 0            9
             04:45 PM             0           1                    1                5                0               5           0             0                 0            6
        Total Volume              0          10                   10               21                0              21           0             0                 0           31
         % App. Total             0         100                                   100                0                           0             0
                  PHF          .000        .500                 .500             .875             .000             .875       .000          .000               .000        .861
N/S: Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                                                 PRECISION                                                    File Name          : 112738 FF
W: Parish of the Messiah Driveway                                                   D A T A                                                      Site Code          : 10865
                                                                                    INDUSTRIES, LLC
City, State: Newton, MA                                                          P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
                                                                                                                                                 Start Date         : 12/15/2011
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                      Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                 Page No            :1
                                                                            Groups Printed- Peds and Bicycles
                                  Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)               Parish of the Messiah Driveway
                                          From North                                        From South                                  From West
                  Start Time        Right         Thru         Peds                 Thru            Left      Peds            Right            Left         Peds         Int. Total
                 04:00 PM                0              0               0                0                 0           0           0             0              1                1
                 04:15 PM                0              0               0                0                 0           0           0             0              0                0
                 04:30 PM                0              0               0                0                 0           0           0             0              2                2
                 04:45 PM                0              0               0                0                 0           0           0             0              0                0
                     Total               0              0               0                0                 0           0           0             0              3                3

                 05:00 PM                0              0               0                0                 0           0           0             0              0                0
                 05:15 PM                0              0               0                0                 0           0           0             0              1                1
                 05:30 PM                0              0               0                0                 0           0           0             0              2                2
                 05:45 PM                0              0               0                0                 0           0           0             0              0                0
                     Total               0              0               0                0                 0           0           0             0              3                3

              Grand Total                0              0               0                0                 0           0           0             0             6                 6
                Apprch %                 0              0               0                0                 0           0           0             0           100
                 Total %                 0              0               0                0                 0           0           0             0           100




                             Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                   Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                    Parish of the Messiah Driveway
                                        From North                                    From South                                           From West
           Start Time      Right       Thru      Peds      App. Total        Thru    Left      Peds     App. Total          Right         Left      Peds    App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:00 PM
        04:00 PM           0         0         0                   0            0            0             0           0       0          0          1               1           1
        04:15 PM           0         0         0                   0            0            0             0           0       0          0          0               0           0
        04:30 PM           0         0         0                   0            0            0             0           0       0          0          2               2           2
        04:45 PM           0         0         0                   0            0            0             0           0       0          0          0               0           0
     Total Volume          0         0         0                   0            0            0             0           0       0          0          3               3           3
     % App. Total          0         0         0                                0            0             0                   0          0        100
              PHF       .000      .000      .000                .000         .000         .000          .000         .000   .000       .000       .375           .375        .375
N/S: Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                                                   PRECISION                                                     File Name      : 112738 FF
W: Parish of the Messiah Driveway                                                     D A T A                                                       Site Code      : 10865
                                                                                      INDUSTRIES, LLC
City, State: Newton, MA                                                            P.O. Box 301 Berlin, MA 01503
                                                                                                                                                    Start Date     : 12/15/2011
Client: VHB/ M. Santos                                                        Office: 508.481.3999 Fax: 508.545.1234
                                                                                  Email: datarequests@pdillc.com
                                                                                                                                                    Page No        :1


                                Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                    Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)               Parish of the Messiah Driveway
                                           From North                                     From South                                      From West
                Start Time        Right          Thru      App. Total               Thru        Left       App. Total          Right           Left       App. Total    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
            05:00 PM               2        162                        164            149                 3            152        0             0                 0         316
             05:15 PM              2        151                        153            127                 6            133        0             0                 0         286
             05:30 PM              2        159                        161            135                 6            141        0             0                 0         302
             05:45 PM              1        165                        166            133                 6            139        0             0                 0         305
        Total Volume               7        637                        644            544                21            565        0             0                 0        1209
         % App. Total            1.1       98.9                                      96.3               3.7                       0             0
                  PHF          .875        .965                        .970          .913             .875             .929    .000          .000              .000         .956
                  Cars             7        627                         634           536               21              557       0             0                 0        1191
               % Cars           100        98.4                        98.4          98.5              100             98.6       0             0                 0         98.5
       Heavy Vehicles              0         10                          10              8                0                8      0             0                 0           18
     % Heavy Vehicles              0         1.6                        1.6            1.5                0              1.4      0             0                 0          1.5

                                                                              Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)
                                                                                 Out       In      Total
                                                                                  536       634    1170
                                                                                     8       10       18
                                                                                  544       644    1188


                                                                                              7  627
                                                                                              0   10
                                                                                              7  637
                                                                                          Right Thru




                                                                               Peak Hour Data
                              Parish of the Messiah Driveway

                                                         28
                                                          0
                                                         28
                                                      Total




                                                                                              North
                                                                   0
                                                                   0
                                                                   0
                                                               Left
                                                 0
                                                 0
                                                 0




                                                                                Peak Hour Begins at 05:00 PM
                                              In




                                                                   0
                                                                   0
                                                                   0
                                                               Right




                                                                                Cars
                                                                                Heavy Vehicles
                                     28
                                       0
                                     28
                                   Out




                                                                                          Left Thru
                                                                                            21  536
                                                                                              0    8
                                                                                            21  544


                                                                                  627       557    1184
                                                                                   10         8       18
                                                                                  637       565    1202
                                                                                 Out       In      Total
                                                                              Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)
Motor Vehicle Crash Rate Worksheets
                                         MassHighway
                                  CRASH RATE WORKSHEET

   CITY/TOWN : NEWTON                                                    COUNT DATE : Nov. 2010              MHD USE ONLY

     DISTRICT :        4           UNSIGNALIZED :                         SIGNALIZED :         X             Source #


                                   ~ INTERSECTION DATA ~

              MAJOR STREET : Washington Street (Route 16)                                                      RIN #

            MINOR STREET(S) : Beacon Street                                                                    RIN #

                              Beacon Street Extension                                                          RIN #

                                                                                                               RIN #

                                                                                                               RIN #




INTERSECTION                     North                                                                        INTERSECTION

DIAGRAM                                                                                                       REF #
(Label Approaches)




                                                        Peak Hour Volumes
APPROACH :                         1            2          3         4              5          6

DIRECTION :                       NB           SB         EB        WB

VOLUMES (PM) :                   1855         1610        20        375

" K " FACTOR :                    .09         APPROACH ADT :       42,889     ADT = TOTAL VOL/"K" FACT.


  TOTAL # OF                               # OF                     AVERAGE # OF
                                  32                       5                                  6.4
  ACCIDENTS :                             YEARS :                  ACCIDENTS ( A ) :

                                                                     ( A * 1,000,000 )
CRASH RATE CALCULATION :                      0.41        RATE =
                                                                       ( ADT * 365 )


Source (optional): MASS HIGHWAY ACCIDENT RECORDS
Comments:




                                                                                                          last updated: 11/06/01
                                         MassHighway
                                   CRASH RATE WORKSHEET

   CITY/TOWN : NEWTON                                                          COUNT DATE : Nov. 2010              MHD USE ONLY

     DISTRICT :        4            UNSIGNALIZED :                              SIGNALIZED :         X             Source #


                                    ~ INTERSECTION DATA ~

              MAJOR STREET : Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                                                          RIN #

            MINOR STREET(S) : Lexington Street                                                                       RIN #

                                                                                                                     RIN #

                                                                                                                     RIN #

                                                                                                                     RIN #



                                                             LEXINGTON
                                                             STREET
INTERSECTION                     North                                                                              INTERSECTION

DIAGRAM                                                                                                             REF #
                                                                                      ROUTE 30
(Label Approaches)




                                                     Peak Hour Volumes
APPROACH :                          1            2      3                  4              5          6

DIRECTION :                        NB        SB        EB                 WB

VOLUMES (PM) :                    410        410       910                675

" K " FACTOR :                     .09      APPROACH ADT :               26,722     ADT = TOTAL VOL/"K" FACT.


  TOTAL # OF                                # OF                          AVERAGE # OF
                                   66                   5                                          13.2
  ACCIDENTS :                              YEARS :                       ACCIDENTS ( A ) :

                                                                           ( A * 1,000,000 )
CRASH RATE CALCULATION :                     1.35      RATE =
                                                                             ( ADT * 365 )


Source (optional): MASS HIGHWAY ACCIDENT RECORDS
Comments:




                                                                                                                last updated: 11/06/01
                                         MassHighway
                                  CRASH RATE WORKSHEET

   CITY/TOWN : NEWTON                                                  COUNT DATE : Nov. 2010              MHD USE ONLY

     DISTRICT :        4           UNSIGNALIZED :                       SIGNALIZED :         X             Source #


                                   ~ INTERSECTION DATA ~

              MAJOR STREET : Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                                                  RIN #

            MINOR STREET(S) : Auburn Street                                                                  RIN #

                                                                                                             RIN #

                                                                                                             RIN #

                                                                                                             RIN #




INTERSECTION                     North                                                                      INTERSECTION

DIAGRAM                                                                                                     REF #
(Label Approaches)




                                                     Peak Hour Volumes
APPROACH :                         1            2        3         4              5          6

DIRECTION :                       NB           SB                 WB

VOLUMES (PM) :                   1545          950                270

" K " FACTOR :                    .09         APPROACH ADT :     30,722     ADT = TOTAL VOL/"K" FACT.


  TOTAL # OF                               # OF                   AVERAGE # OF
                                  16                    5                                   3.2
  ACCIDENTS :                             YEARS :                ACCIDENTS ( A ) :

                                                                   ( A * 1,000,000 )
CRASH RATE CALCULATION :                      0.29      RATE =
                                                                     ( ADT * 365 )


Source (optional): MASS HIGHWAY ACCIDENT RECORDS
Comments:




                                                                                                        last updated: 11/06/01
                                         MassHighway
                                  CRASH RATE WORKSHEET

   CITY/TOWN : NEWTON                                                 COUNT DATE : Nov. 2010              MHD USE ONLY

     DISTRICT :        4           UNSIGNALIZED :       X             SIGNALIZED :                        Source #


                                   ~ INTERSECTION DATA ~

              MAJOR STREET : Washington Street (Route 16)                                                   RIN #

            MINOR STREET(S) : Woodland Road                                                                 RIN #

                                                                                                            RIN #

                                                                                                            RIN #

                                                                                                            RIN #




INTERSECTION                     North                                                                     INTERSECTION

DIAGRAM                                                                                                    REF #
(Label Approaches)




                                                    Peak Hour Volumes
APPROACH :                         1          2         3         4              5          6

DIRECTION :                       NB          SB       EB

VOLUMES (PM) :                   1415       1135       110

" K " FACTOR :                    .09      APPROACH ADT :       29,556     ADT = TOTAL VOL/"K" FACT.


  TOTAL # OF                               # OF                  AVERAGE # OF
                                   9                    5                                  1.8
  ACCIDENTS :                             YEARS :               ACCIDENTS ( A ) :

                                                                  ( A * 1,000,000 )
CRASH RATE CALCULATION :                    0.17       RATE =
                                                                    ( ADT * 365 )


Source (optional): MASS HIGHWAY ACCIDENT RECORDS
Comments:




                                                                                                       last updated: 11/06/01
                                         MassHighway
                                   CRASH RATE WORKSHEET

   CITY/TOWN : NEWTON                                                  COUNT DATE : Nov. 2010              MHD USE ONLY

     DISTRICT :        4            UNSIGNALIZED :                      SIGNALIZED :         X             Source #


                                    ~ INTERSECTION DATA ~

              MAJOR STREET : Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30)                                                  RIN #

            MINOR STREET(S) : Washington Street (Route 16)                                                   RIN #

                                                                                                             RIN #

                                                                                                             RIN #

                                                                                                             RIN #




INTERSECTION                     North                                                                      INTERSECTION

DIAGRAM                                                                                                     REF #
(Label Approaches)




                                                     Peak Hour Volumes
APPROACH :                          1         2          3         4              5          6

DIRECTION :                        NB        SB         EB        WB

VOLUMES (PM) :                    1370       1010       735       595

" K " FACTOR :                     .09      APPROACH ADT :       41,222     ADT = TOTAL VOL/"K" FACT.


  TOTAL # OF                                # OF                  AVERAGE # OF
                                   81                    5                                 16.2
  ACCIDENTS :                              YEARS :               ACCIDENTS ( A ) :

                                                                   ( A * 1,000,000 )
CRASH RATE CALCULATION :                     1.08       RATE =
                                                                     ( ADT * 365 )


Source (optional): MASS HIGHWAY ACCIDENT RECORDS
Comments:




                                                                                                        last updated: 11/06/01
                                         MassHighway
                                  CRASH RATE WORKSHEET

   CITY/TOWN : NEWTON                                                  COUNT DATE : Nov. 2010              MHD USE ONLY

     DISTRICT :        4           UNSIGNALIZED :                      SIGNALIZED :          X             Source #


                                   ~ INTERSECTION DATA ~

              MAJOR STREET : Washington Street (Route 16)                                                    RIN #

            MINOR STREET(S) : Auburn Street                                                                  RIN #

                                                                                                             RIN #

                                                                                                             RIN #

                                                                                                             RIN #




INTERSECTION                     North                                                                      INTERSECTION

DIAGRAM                                                                                                     REF #
(Label Approaches)




                                                     Peak Hour Volumes
APPROACH :                         1            2        3         4              5          6

DIRECTION :                       NB           SB       EB

VOLUMES (PM) :                   1260         1460      380

" K " FACTOR :                    .09         APPROACH ADT :     34,444     ADT = TOTAL VOL/"K" FACT.


  TOTAL # OF                               # OF                   AVERAGE # OF
                                  15                    5                                   3.0
  ACCIDENTS :                             YEARS :                ACCIDENTS ( A ) :

                                                                   ( A * 1,000,000 )
CRASH RATE CALCULATION :                      0.24      RATE =
                                                                     ( ADT * 365 )


Source (optional): MASS HIGHWAY ACCIDENT RECORDS
Comments:




                                                                                                        last updated: 11/06/01
                                         MassHighway
                                   CRASH RATE WORKSHEET

   CITY/TOWN : NEWTON                                                    COUNT DATE : Nov. 2010             MHD USE ONLY

     DISTRICT :        4            UNSIGNALIZED :                       SIGNALIZED :         X             Source #


                                    ~ INTERSECTION DATA ~

              MAJOR STREET : Washington Street (Route 16)                                                     RIN #

            MINOR STREET(S) : Perkins Street                                                                  RIN #

                               Massachusetts Turnpike EB On-Ramps                                             RIN #

                                                                                                              RIN #

                                                                                                              RIN #




INTERSECTION                     North                                                                       INTERSECTION

DIAGRAM                                                                                                      REF #
(Label Approaches)




                                                      Peak Hour Volumes
APPROACH :                         1             2        3         4              5          6

DIRECTION :                        NB           SB       EB         WB

VOLUMES (PM) :                    1675         2140                 15

" K " FACTOR :                     .09         APPROACH ADT :     42,556     ADT = TOTAL VOL/"K" FACT.


  TOTAL # OF                                # OF                   AVERAGE # OF
                                   66                    5                                  13.2
  ACCIDENTS :                              YEARS :                ACCIDENTS ( A ) :

                                                                    ( A * 1,000,000 )
CRASH RATE CALCULATION :                       0.85      RATE =
                                                                      ( ADT * 365 )


Source (optional): MASS HIGHWAY ACCIDENT RECORDS
Comments:




                                                                                                         last updated: 11/06/01
                                         MassHighway
                                  CRASH RATE WORKSHEET

   CITY/TOWN : NEWTON                                                 COUNT DATE : Nov. 2010              MHD USE ONLY

     DISTRICT :        4           UNSIGNALIZED :                      SIGNALIZED :         X             Source #


                                   ~ INTERSECTION DATA ~

              MAJOR STREET : Washington Street (Route 16)                                                   RIN #

            MINOR STREET(S) : I-90 WB OFF-RAMPS                                                             RIN #

                                                                                                            RIN #

                                                                                                            RIN #

                                                                                                            RIN #




INTERSECTION                     North                                                                     INTERSECTION

DIAGRAM                                                                                                    REF #
(Label Approaches)




                                                    Peak Hour Volumes
APPROACH :                         1         2          3         4              5          6

DIRECTION :                       NB         SB        EB        WB

VOLUMES (PM) :                                        1140      1000

" K " FACTOR :                    .09      APPROACH ADT :       23,778     ADT = TOTAL VOL/"K" FACT.


  TOTAL # OF                               # OF                  AVERAGE # OF
                                  35                    5                                  7.0
  ACCIDENTS :                             YEARS :               ACCIDENTS ( A ) :

                                                                  ( A * 1,000,000 )
CRASH RATE CALCULATION :                    0.81       RATE =
                                                                    ( ADT * 365 )


Source (optional): MASS HIGHWAY ACCIDENT RECORDS
Comments:




                                                                                                       last updated: 11/06/01
                                         MassHighway
                                  CRASH RATE WORKSHEET

   CITY/TOWN : NEWTON                                                  COUNT DATE :       5/14/09          MHD USE ONLY

     DISTRICT :        4           UNSIGNALIZED :        X             SIGNALIZED :                        Source #


                                   ~ INTERSECTION DATA ~

              MAJOR STREET : Grove Street                                                                    RIN #

            MINOR STREET(S) : Hancock Street                                                                 RIN #

                                                                                                             RIN #

                                                                                                             RIN #

                                                                                                             RIN #




INTERSECTION                     North                                                                      INTERSECTION

DIAGRAM                                                                                                     REF #
(Label Approaches)




                                                      Peak Hour Volumes
APPROACH :                         1            2        3         4              5          6

DIRECTION :                       NB           SB       EB

VOLUMES (PM) :                    530          460      45

" K " FACTOR :                    .09       APPROACH ADT :       11,500     ADT = TOTAL VOL/"K" FACT.


  TOTAL # OF                                 # OF                 AVERAGE # OF
                                   3                     5                                   1
  ACCIDENTS :                               YEARS :              ACCIDENTS ( A ) :

                                                                   ( A * 1,000,000 )
CRASH RATE CALCULATION :                       0.14     RATE =
                                                                     ( ADT * 365 )


Source (optional): MASS HIGHWAY ACCIDENT RECORDS
Comments:




                                                                                                        last updated: 11/06/01
                                        MassHighway
                                 CRASH RATE WORKSHEET

   CITY/TOWN : NEWTON                                                  COUNT DATE :       5/14/09          MHD USE ONLY

     DISTRICT :        4          UNSIGNALIZED :         X              SIGNALIZED :                       Source #


                                   ~ INTERSECTION DATA ~

              MAJOR STREET : Grove Street                                                                    RIN #

            MINOR STREET(S) : Woodland Road                                                                  RIN #

                                                                                                             RIN #

                                                                                                             RIN #

                                                                                                             RIN #




INTERSECTION                    North                                                                       INTERSECTION

DIAGRAM                                                                                                     REF #
(Label Approaches)




                                                      Peak Hour Volumes
APPROACH :                        1            2         3         4              5          6

DIRECTION :                      NB           SB        EB        WB

VOLUMES (PM) :                   520          425       155       130

" K " FACTOR :                   .09        APPROACH ADT :       13,667     ADT = TOTAL VOL/"K" FACT.


  TOTAL # OF                                 # OF                 AVERAGE # OF
                                 11                      5                                   2
  ACCIDENTS :                               YEARS :              ACCIDENTS ( A ) :

                                                                   ( A * 1,000,000 )
CRASH RATE CALCULATION :                     0.44       RATE =
                                                                     ( ADT * 365 )


Source (optional): MASS HIGHWAY ACCIDENT RECORDS
Comments:




                                                                                                        last updated: 11/06/01
                                          MassHighway
                                   CRASH RATE WORKSHEET

   CITY/TOWN : NEWTON                                                       COUNT DATE :       5/14/09          MHD USE ONLY

     DISTRICT :         4            UNSIGNALIZED :                          SIGNALIZED :         X             Source #


                                     ~ INTERSECTION DATA ~

              MAJOR STREET : Grove Street/Auburn Street                                                           RIN #

            MINOR STREET(S) : Central Street/Auburn Street                                                        RIN #

                                                                                                                  RIN #

                                                                                                                  RIN #

                                                                                                                  RIN #




INTERSECTION                      North                                                                          INTERSECTION

DIAGRAM                                                                                                          REF #
(Label Approaches)




                                                      Peak Hour Volumes
APPROACH :                          1          2             3          4              5          6

DIRECTION :                        NB         SB             EB        WB

VOLUMES (PM) :                     515        520         155          260

" K " FACTOR :                     .09       APPROACH ADT :           16,111     ADT = TOTAL VOL/"K" FACT.


  TOTAL # OF                                 # OF                      AVERAGE # OF
                                    13                       5                                    3
  ACCIDENTS :                               YEARS :                   ACCIDENTS ( A ) :

                                                                        ( A * 1,000,000 )
CRASH RATE CALCULATION :                      0.44           RATE =
                                                                          ( ADT * 365 )


Source (optional): MASS HIGHWAY ACCIDENT RECORDS
Comments:




                                                                                                             last updated: 11/06/01
                                         MassHighway
                                  CRASH RATE WORKSHEET

   CITY/TOWN : NEWTON                                                   COUNT DATE :      5/14/09          MHD USE ONLY

     DISTRICT :        4           UNSIGNALIZED :        X               SIGNALIZED :                      Source #


                                   ~ INTERSECTION DATA ~

              MAJOR STREET : Woodland Road                                                                   RIN #

            MINOR STREET(S) : Hancock Street                                                                 RIN #

                                                                                                             RIN #

                                                                                                             RIN #

                                                                                                             RIN #




INTERSECTION                     North                                                                      INTERSECTION

DIAGRAM                                                                                                     REF #
(Label Approaches)




                                                      Peak Hour Volumes
APPROACH :                         1            2        3         4              5          6

DIRECTION :                       NB           SB       EB        WB

VOLUMES (PM) :                    80           20       150        85

" K " FACTOR :                    .09      APPROACH ADT :        3,722      ADT = TOTAL VOL/"K" FACT.


  TOTAL # OF                               # OF                   AVERAGE # OF
                                   1                     5                                   0
  ACCIDENTS :                             YEARS :                ACCIDENTS ( A ) :

                                                                   ( A * 1,000,000 )
CRASH RATE CALCULATION :                       0.15     RATE =
                                                                     ( ADT * 365 )


Source (optional): MASS HIGHWAY ACCIDENT RECORDS
Comments:




                                                                                                        last updated: 11/06/01
                                          MassHighway
                                   CRASH RATE WORKSHEET

   CITY/TOWN : NEWTON                                                    COUNT DATE :      5/14/09          MHD USE ONLY

     DISTRICT :        4            UNSIGNALIZED :       X                SIGNALIZED :                      Source #


                                    ~ INTERSECTION DATA ~

              MAJOR STREET : Woodland Road                                                                    RIN #

            MINOR STREET(S) : Central Street                                                                  RIN #

                                                                                                              RIN #

                                                                                                              RIN #

                                                                                                              RIN #




INTERSECTION                      North                                                                      INTERSECTION

DIAGRAM                                                                                                      REF #
(Label Approaches)




                                                      Peak Hour Volumes
APPROACH :                          1            2        3         4              5          6

DIRECTION :                        NB           SB       EB        WB

VOLUMES (PM) :                     20           110      290        95

" K " FACTOR :                     .09         APPROACH ADT :     5,722      ADT = TOTAL VOL/"K" FACT.


  TOTAL # OF                                # OF                   AVERAGE # OF
                                    4                    5                                    1
  ACCIDENTS :                              YEARS :                ACCIDENTS ( A ) :

                                                                    ( A * 1,000,000 )
CRASH RATE CALCULATION :                       0.38      RATE =
                                                                      ( ADT * 365 )


Source (optional): MASS HIGHWAY ACCIDENT RECORDS
Comments:




                                                                                                         last updated: 11/06/01
                                         MassHighway
                                  CRASH RATE WORKSHEET

   CITY/TOWN : NEWTON                                                           COUNT DATE :       5/14/09          MHD USE ONLY

     DISTRICT :        4           UNSIGNALIZED :                                SIGNALIZED :         X             Source #


                                   ~ INTERSECTION DATA ~

              MAJOR STREET : Route 16                                                                                 RIN #

            MINOR STREET(S) : Concord Street                                                                          RIN #

                              Retail Driveway                                                                         RIN #

                                                                                                                      RIN #

                                                                                                                      RIN #



                                                               CONCORD 
                                                               STREET
INTERSECTION                     North                                                                               INTERSECTION

DIAGRAM                                                                                                              REF #
                                                                                       ROUTE 16
(Label Approaches)
                                                                 VEWAY
                                                                 AIL
                                                              RETA
                                                              DRIV




                                                       Peak Hour Volumes
APPROACH :                         1             2        3                 4              5          6

DIRECTION :                       NB            SB       EB                WB

VOLUMES (PM) :                    55            410      930               850

" K " FACTOR :                    .09      APPROACH ADT :                 24,944     ADT = TOTAL VOL/"K" FACT.


  TOTAL # OF                               # OF                            AVERAGE # OF
                                  17                      5                                           3
  ACCIDENTS :                             YEARS :                         ACCIDENTS ( A ) :

                                                                            ( A * 1,000,000 )
CRASH RATE CALCULATION :                        0.37     RATE =
                                                                              ( ADT * 365 )


Source (optional): MASS HIGHWAY ACCIDENT RECORDS
Comments:




                                                                                                                 last updated: 11/06/01
                                          MassHighway
                                  CRASH RATE WORKSHEET

   CITY/TOWN : NEWTON                                                           COUNT DATE :       5/14/09          MHD USE ONLY

     DISTRICT :        4            UNSIGNALIZED :         X                     SIGNALIZED :                       Source #


                                    ~ INTERSECTION DATA ~

              MAJOR STREET : Route 16                                                                                 RIN #

            MINOR STREET(S) : Grove Street                                                                            RIN #

                               Retail Driveway                                                                        RIN #

                                                                                                                      RIN #

                                                                                                                      RIN #



                                                                GROVE 
                                                                STREET
INTERSECTION                     North                                                                               INTERSECTION

DIAGRAM                                                                                                              REF #
                                                                                       ROUTE 16
(Label Approaches)
                                                                  VEWAY
                                                                  AIL
                                                               RETA
                                                               DRIV




                                                        Peak Hour Volumes
APPROACH :                         1              2        3                4              5          6

DIRECTION :                        NB            SB       EB               WB

VOLUMES (PM) :                     25             0       870              960

" K " FACTOR :                    .09        APPROACH ADT :               20,611     ADT = TOTAL VOL/"K" FACT.


  TOTAL # OF                                  # OF                         AVERAGE # OF
                                   17                      5                                          3
  ACCIDENTS :                                YEARS :                      ACCIDENTS ( A ) :

                                                                            ( A * 1,000,000 )
CRASH RATE CALCULATION :                         0.45     RATE =
                                                                              ( ADT * 365 )


Source (optional): MASS HIGHWAY ACCIDENT RECORDS
Comments:




                                                                                                                 last updated: 11/06/01
                                        MassHighway
                                 CRASH RATE WORKSHEET

   CITY/TOWN : NEWTON                                                        COUNT DATE :       5/14/09          MHD USE ONLY

     DISTRICT :        4          UNSIGNALIZED :        X                      SIGNALIZED :                      Source #


                                   ~ INTERSECTION DATA ~

              MAJOR STREET : Concord Street                                                                        RIN #

            MINOR STREET(S) : Hagar Road                                                                           RIN #

                                                                                                                   RIN #

                                                                                                                   RIN #

                                                                                                                   RIN #



                                                            CONCORD 
                                                            STREET
INTERSECTION                    North                                                                             INTERSECTION

DIAGRAM                                                                                                           REF #
                                                                                    HAGAR RD.
(Label Approaches)




                                                     Peak Hour Volumes
APPROACH :                        1            2        3                4              5          6

DIRECTION :                      NB           SB                        WB

VOLUMES (PM) :                   235          315                       205

" K " FACTOR :                   .09       APPROACH ADT :              8,389      ADT = TOTAL VOL/"K" FACT.


  TOTAL # OF                                # OF                        AVERAGE # OF
                                  6                     5                                          1
  ACCIDENTS :                              YEARS :                     ACCIDENTS ( A ) :

                                                                         ( A * 1,000,000 )
CRASH RATE CALCULATION :                      0.39     RATE =
                                                                           ( ADT * 365 )


Source (optional): MASS HIGHWAY ACCIDENT RECORDS
Comments:




                                                                                                              last updated: 11/06/01
                                         MassHighway
                                  CRASH RATE WORKSHEET

   CITY/TOWN : NEWTON                                                     COUNT DATE :       5/14/09          MHD USE ONLY

     DISTRICT :        4            UNSIGNALIZED :       X                SIGNALIZED :                        Source #


                                    ~ INTERSECTION DATA ~

              MAJOR STREET : Grove Street                                                                       RIN #

            MINOR STREET(S) : Riverside MBTA Parking Lot Driveway                                               RIN #

                                                                                                                RIN #

                                                                                                                RIN #

                                                                                                                RIN #




INTERSECTION                     North                                                                         INTERSECTION

DIAGRAM                                                                                                        REF #
(Label Approaches)




                                                      Peak Hour Volumes
APPROACH :                         1           2         3            4              5          6

DIRECTION :                        NB         SB        EB

VOLUMES (PM) :                    620         740       235

" K " FACTOR :                     .09      APPROACH ADT :          17,722     ADT = TOTAL VOL/"K" FACT.


  TOTAL # OF                                 # OF                    AVERAGE # OF
                                   6                     5                                      1
  ACCIDENTS :                               YEARS :                 ACCIDENTS ( A ) :

                                                                      ( A * 1,000,000 )
CRASH RATE CALCULATION :                     0.19       RATE =
                                                                        ( ADT * 365 )


Source (optional): MASS HIGHWAY ACCIDENT RECORDS
Comments:




                                                                                                           last updated: 11/06/01
                                         MassHighway
                                  CRASH RATE WORKSHEET

   CITY/TOWN : NEWTON                                                           COUNT DATE : Dec 2011               MHD USE ONLY

     DISTRICT :        4           UNSIGNALIZED :                                SIGNALIZED :         X             Source #


                                   ~ INTERSECTION DATA ~

              MAJOR STREET : Commonwealth Avenue                                                                      RIN #

            MINOR STREET(S) : Auburn Street                                                                           RIN #

                                                                                                                      RIN #

                                                                                                                      RIN #

                                                                                                                      RIN #



                                                             COMM. AVE.

INTERSECTION                     North                                                                               INTERSECTION

DIAGRAM                                                                                                              REF #
(Label Approaches)
                                                                                 AUBURN ST.




                                                     Peak Hour Volumes
APPROACH :                         1            2        3                  4              5          6

DIRECTION :                       NB           SB       EB                 WB

VOLUMES (PM) :                    475          595      365                375

" K " FACTOR :                    .09         APPROACH ADT :              20,111     ADT = TOTAL VOL/"K" FACT.


  TOTAL # OF                               # OF                            AVERAGE # OF
                                  40                    5                                             8
  ACCIDENTS :                             YEARS :                         ACCIDENTS ( A ) :

                                                                            ( A * 1,000,000 )
CRASH RATE CALCULATION :                      1.09      RATE =
                                                                              ( ADT * 365 )


Source (optional): MASS HIGHWAY ACCIDENT RECORDS
Comments:




                                                                                                                 last updated: 11/06/01
                                         MassHighway
                                  CRASH RATE WORKSHEET

   CITY/TOWN : NEWTON                                                     COUNT DATE : Dec 2011               MHD USE ONLY

     DISTRICT :        4           UNSIGNALIZED :          X              SIGNALIZED :                        Source #


                                   ~ INTERSECTION DATA ~

              MAJOR STREET : Lexington Street                                                                   RIN #

            MINOR STREET(S) : Auburn Street                                                                     RIN #

                                                                                                                RIN #

                                                                                                                RIN #

                                                                                                                RIN #
                                                      LEXINGTON
                                                      STREET


INTERSECTION                     North                                                                         INTERSECTION

DIAGRAM                                                                                                        REF #
(Label Approaches)
                                                                          DRIVEWAY
                                              AUBURN ST.




                                                     Peak Hour Volumes
APPROACH :                         1            2          3          4              5          6

DIRECTION :                       NB           SB          EB        WB

VOLUMES (PM) :                    560          425         180        5

" K " FACTOR :                    .09         APPROACH ADT :        13,000     ADT = TOTAL VOL/"K" FACT.


  TOTAL # OF                               # OF                      AVERAGE # OF
                                   9                       5                                    2
  ACCIDENTS :                             YEARS :                   ACCIDENTS ( A ) :

                                                                      ( A * 1,000,000 )
CRASH RATE CALCULATION :                      0.38         RATE =
                                                                        ( ADT * 365 )


Source (optional): MASS HIGHWAY ACCIDENT RECORDS
Comments:




                                                                                                           last updated: 11/06/01
                                         MassHighway
                                  CRASH RATE WORKSHEET

   CITY/TOWN : NEWTON                                                      COUNT DATE : Dec 2011               MHD USE ONLY

     DISTRICT :        4            UNSIGNALIZED :                          SIGNALIZED :         X             Source #


                                    ~ INTERSECTION DATA ~

              MAJOR STREET : Lexington Street                                                                    RIN #

            MINOR STREET(S) : Wolcott Street                                                                     RIN #

                                                                                                                 RIN #

                                                                                                                 RIN #

                                                                                                                 RIN #
                                                      LEXINGTON
                                                      STREET


INTERSECTION                     North                                                                          INTERSECTION

DIAGRAM                                                                                                         REF #
(Label Approaches)
                                                                           WOLCOTT ST.




                                                      Peak Hour Volumes
APPROACH :                         1             2           3         4              5          6

DIRECTION :                        NB           SB         EB         WB

VOLUMES (PM) :                    730           895                   195

" K " FACTOR :                     .09         APPROACH ADT :        20,222     ADT = TOTAL VOL/"K" FACT.


  TOTAL # OF                                # OF                      AVERAGE # OF
                                   5                         5                                   1
  ACCIDENTS :                              YEARS :                   ACCIDENTS ( A ) :

                                                                       ( A * 1,000,000 )
CRASH RATE CALCULATION :                       0.14         RATE =
                                                                         ( ADT * 365 )


Source (optional): MASS HIGHWAY ACCIDENT RECORDS
Comments:




                                                                                                            last updated: 11/06/01
                                         MassHighway
                                  CRASH RATE WORKSHEET

   CITY/TOWN : NEWTON                                                   COUNT DATE : Dec 2011               MHD USE ONLY

     DISTRICT :        4            UNSIGNALIZED :                       SIGNALIZED :         X             Source #


                                    ~ INTERSECTION DATA ~

              MAJOR STREET : Commonwealth Avenue                                                              RIN #

            MINOR STREET(S) : Melrose Street                                                                  RIN #

                                                                                                              RIN #

                                                                                                              RIN #

                                                                                                              RIN #

                                                        MELROSE


INTERSECTION                     North
                                                        STREET

                                                                                                             INTERSECTION

DIAGRAM                                                                                                      REF #
(Label Approaches)
                                                                           COMM. AVE.




                                                      Peak Hour Volumes
APPROACH :                         1            2        3          4              5          6

DIRECTION :                       NB           SB       EB         WB

VOLUMES (PM) :                    105          70       805       1030

" K " FACTOR :                    .09      APPROACH ADT :         22,333     ADT = TOTAL VOL/"K" FACT.


  TOTAL # OF                               # OF                    AVERAGE # OF
                                   11                    5                                    2
  ACCIDENTS :                             YEARS :                 ACCIDENTS ( A ) :

                                                                    ( A * 1,000,000 )
CRASH RATE CALCULATION :                       0.27      RATE =
                                                                      ( ADT * 365 )


Source (optional): MASS HIGHWAY ACCIDENT RECORDS
Comments:




                                                                                                         last updated: 11/06/01
Existing Public Transportation Information
     RAPID                                          WEEKDAY                                                           SATURDAY                                                              SUNDAY
    TRANSIT                                     RUSH                              LATE                            A.M.    P.M.                     LATE                            A.M.        P.M.                 LATE                 Blue Line Note:
                                     FIRST      HOUR      MIDDAY     EVENING      NIGHT      LAST     FIRST       PEAK    PEAK  EVENING            NIGHT      LAST     FIRST       PEAK        PEAK  EVENING        NIGHT      LAST
      LINE                            TRIP     SERVICE    SERVICE    SERVICE     SERVICE     TRIP      TRIP     HEADWAY HEADWAY SERVICE           SERVICE     TRIP     TRIP      HEADWAY     HEADWAY SERVICE       SERVICE     TRIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         No service to Bowdoin Station after 6:00PM on Week-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         days and all day Saturday and Sunday.
       RED LINE
       LV ALEWIFE                    5:24AM    9 MINS.    13 MINS.    12 MINS.   12 MINS.   12:15AM   5:24AM    14 MINS.    14 MINS.   14 MINS.   14 MINS.   12:15AM   6:08AM    16 MINS.    16 MINS.   16 MINS.   16 MINS.   12:14AM
       LV BRAINTREE                  5:15AM    9 MINS.    13 MINS.    12 MINS.   12 MINS.   12:18AM   5:15AM    14 MINS.    14 MINS.   14 MINS.   14 MINS.   12:18AM   6:00AM    16 MINS.    16 MINS.   16 MINS.   16 MINS.   12:18AM

       LV ALEWIFE                    5:16AM    9 MINS.    13 MINS.    12 MINS.   12 MINS.   12:22AM   5:16AM    14 MINS.    14 MINS.   14 MINS.   14 MINS.   12:22AM   6:00AM    16 MINS.    16 MINS.   16 MINS.   16 MINS.   12:22AM
       LV ASHMONT                    5:16AM    9 MINS.    13 MINS.    12 MINS.   12 MINS.   12:30AM   5:16AM    14 MINS.    14 MINS.   14 MINS.   14 MINS.   12:30AM   6:00AM    16 MINS.    16 MINS.   16 MINS.   16 MINS.   12:30AM

 "M" LV ASHMONT                      5:16AM    5 MINS.    10 MINS.    12 MINS.   12 MINS.    1:04AM   5:15AM     8 MINS.    8 MINS.    13 MINS.   13 MINS.    1:05AM   6:01AM    11 MINS.    11 MINS.   12 MINS.   12 MINS.    1:05AM
     LV MATTAPAN                     5:05AM    5 MINS.    10 MINS.    12 MINS.   12 MINS.   12:53AM   5:05AM     8 MINS.    8 MINS.    13 MINS.   13 MINS.   12:50AM   5:51AM    11 MINS.    11 MINS.   12 MINS.   12 MINS.   12:50AM

        BLUE LINE
    LV WONDERLAND                    5:13AM    5 MINS.    9 MINS.     10 MINS.   13 MINS.   12:26AM   5:25AM     9 MINS.    9 MINS.     9 MINS.   13 MINS.   12:26AM   5:58AM     13 MINS.    9 MINS.   9 MINS.    13 MINS.   12:26AM
    LV ORIENT HEIGHTS                5:13AM    5 MINS.    9 MINS.     10 MINS.   13 MINS.   12:31AM   5:13AM     9 MINS.    9 MINS.     9 MINS.   13 MINS.   12:31AM   6:03AM     13 MINS.    9 MINS.   9 MINS.    13 MINS.   12:31AM
    LV GOV'T CENTER                  5:30AM    5 MINS.    9 MINS.     10 MINS.   13 MINS.   12:49AM   5:29AM     9 MINS.    9 MINS.     9 MINS.   13 MINS.   12:49AM   6:21AM     13 MINS.    9 MINS.   9 MINS.    13 MINS.   12:49AM

     ORANGE LINE
    LV OAK GROVE                     5:16AM    5 MINS.    8 MINS.     13 MINS.   13 MINS.   12:26AM   5:16AM    10 MINS.    8 MINS.    13 MINS.   13 MINS.   12:26AM   6:00AM    15 MINS.    14 MINS.   14 MINS.   14 MINS.   12:26AM
    LV FOREST HILLS                  5:16AM    5 MINS.    8 MINS.     13 MINS.   13 MINS.   12:22AM   5:16AM    10 MINS.    8 MINS.    13 MINS.   13 MINS.   12:22AM   6:00AM    15 MINS.    14 MINS.   14 MINS.   14 MINS.   12:22AM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             "Advertise YOUR message here!"
      GREEN LINE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Call MBTA Marketing Dept.
"B" LV BOSTON COLLEGE 5:01AM                   6 MINS.    8 MINS.     10 MINS.   11MINS.    12:10AM   4:45AM*    7 MINS.    6 MINS.    7 MINS.    11 MINS.   12:10AM   5:20AM*   10 MINS.    9 MINS.    10 MINS.   10 MINS.   12:10AM
    LV GOVERNMENT CTR. 5:39AM                  6 MINS.    8 MINS.     10 MINS.   11MINS.    12:52AM   5:35AM     7 MINS.    6 MINS.    7 MINS.    11 MINS.   12:50AM   6:06AM    10 MINS.    9 MINS.    10 MINS.   10 MINS.   12:48AM                 (617) 222-5740
"C" LV CLEVELAND CIR.                5:01AM*   7 MINS.    10 MINS.    10 MINS.   14 MINS.   12:10AM   4:50AM*    10 MINS.   8 MINS.    8 MINS.    10 MINS.   12:10AM   5:30AM*   10 MINS.    10 MINS.   10 MINS.   10 MINS.   12:10AM
    LV NORTH STATION                 5:55AM    7 MINS.    10 MINS.    10 MINS.   14 MINS.   12:46AM   5:30AM     10 MINS.   8 MINS.    8 MINS.    10 MINS.   12:50AM   6:06AM    10 MINS.    10 MINS.   10 MINS.   10 MINS.   12:48AM

"D" LV RIVERSIDE       4:56AM                  6 MINS.    11 MINS.    10 MINS.   13 MINS.   12:05AM   4:55AM     10 MINS.   8 MINS.    10 MINS.   10 MINS.   12:00AM   5:25AM    10 MINS.    10 MINS.   10 MINS.   10 MINS.   12:00AM
    LV GOVERNMENT CTR. 5:34AM                  6 MINS.    11 MINS.    10 MINS.   13 MINS.   12:47AM   5:34AM     10 MINS.   8 MINS.    10 MINS.   10 MINS.   12:47AM   6:04AM    10 MINS.    10 MINS.   10 MINS.   10 MINS.   12:45AM

"E" LV LECHMERE                      5:01AM    6 MINS.    8 MINS.     10 MINS.   14 MINS.   12:30AM   5:01AM    10 MINS.    7 MINS.    10 MINS.   10 MINS.   12:30AM   5:35AM    10 MINS.    10 MINS.   10 MINS.   10 MINS.   12:30AM
    LV HEATH STREET                  5:30AM    6 MINS.    8 MINS.     10 MINS.   14 MINS.   12:45AM   5:30AM    10 MINS.    7 MINS.    10 MINS.   10 MINS.   12:45AM   6:15AM    10 MINS.    10 MINS.   10 MINS.   10 MINS.   12:47AM

                            * The first 2 "C" Line AM inbound trips run through to Lechmere Station on Weekdays. * The first "B" Line and the second "C" Line AM inbound trips run through to Lechmere Station on Saturday and Sunday.
                                     FIRST RUSH HOUR MIDDAY EVENING LATE NIGHT               LAST     FIRST     A.M. PEAK P.M. PEAK EVENING LATE NIGHT        LAST     FIRST     A.M. PEAK P.M. PEAK EVENING LATE NIGHT        LAST
     SILVER LINE                                                                             TRIP      TRIP     SERVICE SERVICE SERVICE SERVICE               TRIP      TRIP     SERVICE SERVICE SERVICE SERVICE               TRIP
                                     TRIP   SERVICE SERVICE SERVICE SERVICE

SL1 LV LOGAN AIRPORT                 5:38AM    10 MINS.   10 MINS.    12 MINS.   12 MINS.   12:45AM   5:33AM    12 MINS.    12 MINS.   12 MINS.   12 MINS.   12:45AM   5:50AM    12 MINS.    8 MINS.    8 MINS.    8 MINS.    12:45AM
    LV SOUTH STATION                 5:35AM    10 MINS.   10 MINS.    12 MINS.   12 MINS.   12:30AM   5:35AM    12 MINS.    12 MINS.   12 MINS.   12 MINS.   12:30AM   6:12AM    12 MINS.    8 MINS.    8 MINS.    8 MINS.    12:30AM

SL2 LV DESIGN CENTER                 6:03AM    5 MINS.    10 MINS.    15 MINS.   15 MINS.   12:30AM   6:10AM    15 MINS.    15 MINS.   15 MINS.   15 MINS.   12:35AM   6:50AM    15 MINS.    15 MINS.   30 MINS.   30 MINS.   12:34AM
    LV SOUTH STATION                 5:45AM    5 MINS.    10 MINS.    15 MINS.   15 MINS.   12:50AM   5:50AM    15 MINS.    15 MINS.   15 MINS.   15 MINS.   12:48AM   6:35AM    15 MINS.    15 MINS.   30 MINS.   30 MINS.   12:48AM

Additional Waterfront-only service
     LV SILVER LINE WAY              5:28AM    5 MINS.                                                5:28AM                                                           6:05AM
     LV SOUTH STATION                5:35AM    5 MINS.              Use SL1/SL2             12:55AM
                                                                                                                            Use SL1/SL2                      12:52AM                           Use SL1/SL2                     1:00AM

SL4 LV DUDLEY STATION                5:20AM    10 MINS.   15 MINS.    20 MINS.   20 MINS.   12:20AM   5:20AM    15 MINS.    15 MINS.   20 MINS.   20 MINS.   12:20AM   6:00AM    15 MINS.    15 MINS.   20 MINS.   20 MINS.   12:20AM
    LV SOUTH STATION                 5:40AM    10 MINS.   15 MINS.    20 MINS.   20 MINS.   12:40AM   5:40AM    15 MINS.    15 MINS.   20 MINS.   20 MINS.   12:40AM   6:20AM    15 MINS.    15 MINS.   20 MINS.   20 MINS.   12:40AM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Spring 2010 Holidays
SL5 LV DUDLEY STATION 5:15AM                   6 MINS.    8 MINS.     10 MINS.   15 MINS.   12:48AM   5:19AM     8 MINS.    6 MINS.    9 MINS.    9 MINS.    12:46AM   6:00AM    10 MINS.    8 MINS.    9 MINS.    9 MINS.    12:25AM                                      April 19 - See Weekday
   DOWNTOWN CROSSING 5:30AM                    6 MINS.    8 MINS.     10 MINS.   15 MINS.    1:02AM   5:34AM     8 MINS.    6 MINS.    9 MINS.    9 MINS.     1:00AM   6:15AM    10 MINS.    8 MINS.    9 MINS.    9 MINS.    12:47AM                                      May 31 - See Sunday
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           June 17 - See Weekday
 500                        WEEKDAY                                           505                       WEEKDAY
                 INBOUND                              OUTBOUND                             INBOUND                                   OUTBOUND

      Leave               Arrive              Leave              Arrive        Leave        Arrive      Arrive          Leave          Arrive     Arrive
     Riverside          Federal &           Federal &           Riverside    Central Sq.    West      Federal &       Federal &        West     Central Sq.
      Station          Franklin Sts.       Franklin Sts.         Station      Waltham      Newton    Franklin Sts.   Franklin Sts.    Newton     Waltham

      6:15A                6:43A             6:43A               7:05A         5:55A        6:09A       6:28A           6:05A          6:21A      6:32A
                                                                                                                                                                           NO SERVICE ON
      7:15                 7:54              7:54                8:16          6:10
                                                                               6:25
                                                                                            6:24
                                                                                            6:39
                                                                                                        6:43
                                                                                                        6:58
                                                                                                                        6:35
                                                                                                                        6:55
                                                                                                                                       6:51
                                                                                                                                       7:15
                                                                                                                                                  7:02
                                                                                                                                                  7:29
                                                                                                                                                                        WEEKENDS & HOLIDAYS
      8:25                 9:03                                                6:40         6:54        7:13            7:03           7:24       7:38
                                                                               6:53         7:09        7:28            7:14           7:35       7:49
      3:28P                3:59P              3:00P              3:28P         7:05         7:22        7:44            7:29           7:50       8:04
                                                                               7:14         7:31        7:58            7:45           8:06       8:20
      4:38                 5:09               4:10               4:38          7:22         7:41        8:08            8:00           8:21       8:35
      5:48                 6:19               5:20               5:48          7:30         7:51        8:17            8:15           8:36       8:50
      6:58                 7:29               6:30               6:58          7:38         7:59        8:25            8:40           9:01       9:13
                                                                               7:45         8:06        8:30            9:12           9:40       9:42                                        OUTER EXPRESS
                                                                               7:53         8:14        8:36            9:40           9:58      10:10                                      ROUTE 500 & 505 FARES
                                                                               8:02         8:22        8:44                                                                                        OUTER                OUTER X-BUS +           OUTER X-BUS +
                                                                               8:10         8:28        8:50            3:10P          3:28P      3:43P                PAYING    WITH...          X-BUS TRIP             LOCAL BUS TRIP            SUBWAY TRIP
                                                                               8:18         8:36        8:58            3:40           3:58       4:17              CharlieCard                     $4.00                   $4.00                    $4.00
555                        WEEKDAY                                             8:34
                                                                               8:50
                                                                                            8:52
                                                                                            9:06
                                                                                                        9:11
                                                                                                        9:22
                                                                                                                        4:00
                                                                                                                        4:15
                                                                                                                                       4:25
                                                                                                                                       4:40
                                                                                                                                                  4:44
                                                                                                                                                  4:59
                                                                                                                                                                     CharlieTicket
                                                                                                                                                                   Cash onboard
                                                                                                                                                                                                    $5.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                    $5.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            $6.50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            $6.50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      $7.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      $7.00
            INBOUND                                  OUTBOUND                  9:06         9:19        9:35            4:30           4:55       5:14            T Pupil Badge*                    $2.00                   $2.00                     $2.00
                                                                               9:22         9:35        9:51            4:45           5:10       5:29          Senior/TAP card**                   $2.00                   $2.00                     $2.00
 Leave        Arrive      Arrive       Leave           Arrive      Arrive      9:45         9:58       10:14            5:00           5:25       5:44
Riverside    Newton     Federal &     Federal &       Newton     Riverside                                                                                      Children 11 and under ride free when accompanied by an adult.
                                                                              10:15        10:28       10:44            5:10           5:35       5:54
 Station     Corner    Franklin Sts. Franklin Sts.    Corner      Station                                                                                       Blind persons ride free with MBTA Blind Access card or Mass. Comm. for the Blind ID card.
                                                                                                                        5:20           5:45       6:04
                                                                               3:55P        4:08P       4:25P           5:30           5:55       6:14          VALID PASSES: Outer Express Bus Pass ($129/mo.), Commuter Boat Pass ($198/mo),
c 7:50P       8:01P         8:24P      c 7:00P       L 7:23P      7:36P        4:25         4:38        4:55            5:43           6:08       6:27           and Commuter Rail Zone 1-8 passes.
c 8:10        8:21          8:44       c 7:30        L 7:53       8:06         4:45         4:58        5:15            5:54           6:19       6:38
c 9:00        9:11          9:34       c 7:50        L 8:13       8:26         5:05         5:18        5:35            6:09           6:34       6:53          * Available to students through participating middle schools and high schools.
                                                                               5:18         5:31        5:48            6:22           6:47       7:06          ** Available to Medicare cardholders, seniors 65+, and persons with disabilities.
c10:20       10:31         10:54       c 8:20        L 8:43       8:56         5:33         5:46        6:03            6:35           7:00       7:19
                                       c 9:40        L 10:03     10:16         5:46         5:59        6:16            6:50           7:15       7:34
c - Via Copley Sq.                                                             5:56         6:09        6:26            7:20           7:45       8:04
L - Runs local between Newton Corner and Riverside                             6:15         6:28        6:45                                                                                   INNER EXPRESS
                                                                               6:40         6:53        7:10
    via Washington St.                                                                                                                                                                         ROUTE 555 FARES
                                                                               6:53         7:06        7:23                                                                                LOCAL            INNER         INNER X-BUS +           INNER X-BUS +
                                                                                                                                                              PAYING   WITH...                             X- BUS TRIP     LOCAL BUS TRIP            SUBWAY TRIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                      FARES
                                                                                                       NOTE                                                   CharlieCard
                                                                                                                                                                 PAYING WITH...
                                                                                                                                                                                           $1.25       $2.80 2-BUS TRIP
                                                                                                                                                                                               1-BUS TRIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  $2.80
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    $2.80 BUS + SUBWAY TRIP
                                                                                                                                                              CharlieTicket                  $1.50             $3.50              $5.00                 $5.50
                    Route 500                                                    For later outbound service along Washington St. in                           CashCharlieCard
                                                                                                                                                                      onboard                $1.50  $1.25 $3.50 $1.25$5.00                        $1.70 $5.50
                                                                                 Newtonville and West Newton, please refer to the                             T PupilCharlieTicket
                                                                                                                                                                         Badge*              $0.60 $1.50 $1.40 $1.50 $1.40                        $3.50 $1.40
               Outer Express Bus                                                                                                                                   Cash onboard
                                                                                                                                                              Senior/TAP       card**        $0.40 $1.50 $1.40 $3.00 $1.40                        $3.50 $1.40
                                                                                               Route 555 L-note trips.                                            T Pupil Badge*                      60¢                   60¢                      85¢
        Riverside - Downtown Boston via                                                                                                                       Children
                                                                                                                                                              Senior/TAP11 and   under ride free when
                                                                                                                                                                               card**                 40¢                   an adult.
                                                                                                                                                                                                           accompanied by 40¢                        60¢
                 Mass. Turnpike                                                                                                                               Blind persons ride free with MBTA Blind Access card or Mass. Comm. for the Blind ID card.
                                                                                                                                                              Children 11 and under ride free when accompanied by an adult.
                                                                                     ALL BUSES ON THIS ROUTE ARE WHEELCHAIR ACCESSIBLE                        VALID   PASSES:
                                                                                                                                                              Blind persons  ride Inner  Express
                                                                                                                                                                                   free with MBTA Bus  Pass
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Blind     ($89/mo.),
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Access       Outer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   card or     Express
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Mass.   Comm.BusforPass  ($129/mo.),
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               the Blind ID card.
     ALL BUSES ON THIS ROUTE ARE WHEELCHAIR ACCESSIBLE                                                                                                         Commuter Boat Pass ($198/mo), and Commuter Rail Zone 1-8 passes.
                                                                                               Route 505                                                      VALID PASSES: Local Bus Pass ($40/mo.); LinkPass ($59/mo.); Student Pass* ($20/mo.);
                   Route 555                                                                                                                                     Available toPass**
                                                                                                                                                              * Senior/TAP    students($20/mo.);   participating
                                                                                                                                                                                         through and             middle
                                                                                                                                                                                                       express bus,      schools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     zoned,       and high
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             interzoned,  andschools.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               boat passes.
                                                                                           Outer Express Bus                                                  ** Available to Medicare cardholders, seniors 65+, and persons with disabilities.
              Inner Express Bus                                                                                                                               * Available to students through participating middle schools and high schools.

       Riverside - Downtown Boston via                                          Central Sq., Waltham - Downtown Boston                                        Local   bus to
                                                                                                                                                              ** Available  fare   applies
                                                                                                                                                                              Medicare        if your trip
                                                                                                                                                                                          cardholders,       does
                                                                                                                                                                                                         seniors    not
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  65+ andinclude
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           persons the  Mass.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     with         Turnpike.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          disabilities.

                                                                                    via Moody St. & Mass. Turnpike                                                                            Fall
                                                                                                                                                                                              Fall2009
                                                                                                                                                                                                   2009 Holidays
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Holidays
     Newton, Mass. Turnpike & Copley Sq.                                                                                                                      Oct. 12: See Sat. Sept. 7, Nov. 26, Dec. 25: See Sun. Nov. 11: See Wkdy.
     Route 500 Express Bus Riverside - Downtown Boston
     Route 505 Express Bus Central Square, Waltham - Downtown Boston
                                                                                                                                                                             via Mass. Turnpike

                                                                                                                                                                                                                          via Moody St.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Express Bus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Riverside -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Downtown Boston
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       via Mass Pike
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ) 500
     Route 555 Express Bus Riverside - Downtown Boston                                                                                                                      via Newton, Mass. Turnpike, & Copley Sq.                                                                   Express Bus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Central Sq., Waltham -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Downtown Boston
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       via Moody St. & Mass Pike
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ) 505
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ) 555
                                              School St.                                                                                              Connection to
                                                                                                                                                      Rts. 92, 93
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Express Bus
                                 Common St.



                                                                                                                                                                                                 Franklin St.
                                                        Lexington St                                                                 DOWNTOWN                                                                                                                                          Riverside -




                                                                                                                                                                                                               Co
                                                                                                                                     CROSSING                                                                                                                                          Downtown Boston




                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ng
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       via Newton, Mass Pike, & Copley Sq.




                                                                                                                                                                                        t.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                   re
                                                                                                                                                                                         .
                                                                                                                                                                                      St

                                                                                                                                                                                   re S
                                                                         Main St.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      s  sS
                               505




                                                                                                                                                                                   is
                                                                                                                              e




                                                                                                                                                                                                  Federal
                                                                                                                                Connection to Rts
                                                           .




                                                                                                                           Lin




                                                                                                                                                                                Ot


                                                                                                                                                                               shi




                                                                                                                                                                                                                         t.
                                                                                                                                7, 11, 448, 449, 459
                                                                       Elm S




                                                                                                                         ine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       FALL September 5, 2009 - December 25, 2009




                                                                                                                                                                            von
                                                                                                                        ge
                                                 Central                                  urg




                                                                                                                       rL
                                                                                      chb




                                                                                                                      an
                                                                                              il




                                                                                                                                           t.
                                                 Square




                                                                                                                                                                          De
                                                                                  Fit terRa




                                                                                                                                       yS
                                                                                                                 lve




                                                                                                                                                             .




                                                                                                                                                                                                    St.
                                                                                                                    Or
                                                                            t.




                                                                                                                                                           St

                                                                                                                                                                          Su
                                                        t.                              u                                                                                                              Connection to Rts.




                                                                                                                                     nc
                                                Carter S




                                                                                                                Si
                                                                                     mm




                                                                                                                                                      on


                                                                                                                                                                             m
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Serving:        Downtown Business & Shopping




                                                                                                                                     au
                                                                                   o                                                                                                           St.      501, 504, 553,




                                                                                                                                                                              m
              AM Layover




                                                                                                                                                    st
                                                                                 C                                                                                                         High Patriot 554, 556, 558




                                                                                                                                                                               er
                                                                                                                                  Ch


                                                                                                                                              ng
                Point                           WALTHAM                                                                                                                                            News                                                                                                District and connections to the Red,




                                                                                                                                                                                  St
                                                                                                                                           Ki
                                                                                                                                                           Bedford St.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Orange & Green Lines, Fitchburg &




                                                                                                                                                                                    .
                                                                                                                       Connection




                                                                                                                                           Kingston St.
                                                Connection to Rts. 553,                                                                                                                                Re
                                                70, 70A, 170, 554, 556, 558
                                                                                                                         to Rt 11                                                                        dL
                                                                                                                                                                                                           ine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Framingham Commuter Rail
                            t.
                        dy S




                                                                                                                                                           Essex St.                                                      SOUTH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority
                                                PM Layover
                                                                                                   N             CHINATOWN                                                                                                STATION
                       Moo




                                                  Point
                                                                                                                                                                      500




                                                                                                                                                            ry
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Patriot
                                                                                                                 Registry




                                                                                                                                                          te
                                                                                                                                                                                                               News




                                                                                                                                                          Ar
                                                                                                                 of Motor
                                                                                                                                                                     505




                                                                                                                                                 ce
                                                                                                                 Vehicles




                                                                                                                                                                                     South St.
                                                                                                                                            rfa
                                                                                                                              United
                                                                                                                                                                     555




                                                                                                                                          Su
                                                                                                                              Commercial




                                                                                                                                                                                                           .
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ave
                                                                                                                              Bank
                                                                                                                     To/From
                                                                                                                                                                            Bea




                                                                                                                                                                                                     ntic
                                                                                                                     Copley Square                                               ch S




                                                                                                                                                                 ln St.
                                                                                                                                                                                      t.




                                                                                                                                                                                                   Atla
                                                                                                                            555



                                                                                                                                                            Linco
        128                                                                                                              Kn  eelan
                                                                                                                                  d St.                                                           Bus stops

                                                                          ail                                                             To
                                                                      er R                                                                MassPike                             From
                                                                   mut
                                                                Com                                                                                                            MassPike
                            505                       Fitc
                                                          hbu
                                                             rg

                                              WALTHAM See Rt. 500
                                                        L Note
                                    t.
                            Moody S




           Connection to                                                                                 Express
       Rts. 553, 554, 558                                                                                No Stops                                          For service
                                    N




                                                                                                                                                          to Copley Sq.
                                     EW




                                                                                                                                                           see Rt. 500
                                       TO




                                                                                      NEWTON                                                                                                         Financial District
                                        W




                                                                                                             500 505 555                                      c Note
                                         N
         A




                                          .N




                                                                                      CORNER                                                                                                         Downtown Boston
                                           VI
          U




                                                                          555
                                            EW
           B




                                             LL
            U




                                               E
             R




                                                TO
              N




                            Lexington St.
                                                  N
               D




                                                                   ike
                A




                                                               s. P                                                                                                                              555                                                                                            Visit mbta.com or call us to find a retail location
                 LE




Commonwealth Ave.                                          Mas                                     Connection to
                                    St.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         where you can obtain CharlieCards and
                                ton                                                                Rts. 52, 57, 502, 503,                                                                                                                                                                       purchase MBTA passes and stored value.
      500     RIVERSIDE   sh ing                                                                   504, 553, 554, 556, 558                                                              Copley
                                                                                                                                                                                        Square                                                                                            Customer Service/Travel Info 617-222-3200
                        Wa
                            30                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Toll Free................................1-800-392-6100
                    555                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Hearing Impaired (TTY)...........617-222-5146
                                     See Rt. 500                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Web Site...............................www.mbta.com
                                       L Note                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Schedules subject to change, please exit rear door.
     Connection to Rt. 558                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Arrive times are approximate, subject to traffic.
                                                                                                                                Indicates MBTA pass and fare sales locations. Fare vending machines are
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   NO SMOKING on MBTA property.
                                                                                                                                also located at all subway stations and at Dudley Station.                                                                                                Driven by Customer Ser vice
556 & 558                                                  WEEKDAY
                                INBOUND                                                         OUTBOUND




                                                                                                Walth Sq.
                                Walth Sq.




                                                                      B o s to wn
                                                        B o s to wn




                                                                                                                   nds
                          nds




                                                                                                                    m
                           m
            e




                                                                                                                              e
                                                                                                      am
                                      am




                                                                                            n
                                                                              to
                                                    n




                                                                to




                                                                                           rt
              id




                                                                                                                                id
                                                                              e




                                                                                                        l
                                        l




                                                                              n




                                                                                                            Waltha
                   Waltha
                    Leave




                                                                                                Centra
                                                                                    Newto
                                                                n




                                                                                          r
                                            Newto



                                                         Arrive
                                Centra



                                             Arrive




                                                                                                 Arrive
                                                  r




                                                                                     Depa
       Leave




                                                                                                             Arrive
                                 Arrive




                                                                      Down
                                                                       Leav




                                                                                                            Highla
                                                        Down
                   Highla




                                                                                    Corne
       Rivers




                                                                                                                         Rivers
                                            Corne




                                                                                                                         Arrive
           -        6:15A        6:22A       6:42A          -             -          6:45A       7:05A       7:12A          -
        6:25A          -         6:45        6:59           -             -          7:00        7:14            -       7:33A
           -        6:45         6:52        7:12        7:29A         7:05A         7:24        7:38           -        7:57
           -        7:15         7:22        7:42        7:59          7:25          7:44        8:04        8:11           -
        7:35           -         7:55        8:09        8:26          8:10          8:29        8:43           -        9:02
           -        7:45         7:52        8:12        8:29          8:25          8:44        9:04        9:11           -
        8:00           -         8:20        8:34        8:51             -          9:45       10:05       10:12            -
           -
           -
                    8:15
                    9:15
                                 8:22
                                 9:22
                                             8:42
                                             9:42
                                                         8:59
                                                            -
                                                                          -
                                                                          -
                                                                                    10:45
                                                                                    11:45
                                                                                                11:05
                                                                                                12:05P
                                                                                                            11:12
                                                                                                            12:12P
                                                                                                                            -
                                                                                                                            -
                                                                                                                                                             NO SERVICE ON
        9:05
           -
                       -
                   10:15
                                 9:25
                                10:22
                                             9:39
                                            10:42
                                                         9:54
                                                            -
                                                                                                                                                          WEEKENDS & HOLIDAYS
           -       11:15        11:22       11:42           -

           -       12:15P       12:22P      12:42P          -         12:15P        12:32P      12:46P          -        1:05P
           -        1:15         1:22        1:42           -             -         12:45        1:05        1:12P          -
        1:15P          -         1:35        1:49           -             -          1:45        2:05        2:12           -
           -        2:15         2:22        2:42           -             -          1:50        2:04           -        2:23
        2:25           -         2:45        2:59           -             -          2:45        3:05        3:12           -
           -        3:15         3:22        3:42           -             -          3:00        3:14           -        3:33
        3:35           -         3:55        4:09           -             -          3:45        4:05        4:12           -
           -        4:15         4:22        4:42        4:59P            -          4:10        4:24           -        4:43
        4:45           -         5:05        5:19        5:36          4:25          4:49        5:09        5:16           -
           -        5:20         5:27        5:47        6:02          4:45          5:09        5:23           -        5:42
        5:45           -         6:05        6:19        6:34          4:55          5:19        5:39        5:46           -
           -        6:20         6:27        6:47        7:02          5:14          5:38        5:52           -        6:11
        6:20           -         6:40        6:54        7:09          5:25          5:49        6:09        6:16           -
        6:50           -         7:10        7:24        7:39          6:00          6:17        6:31           -        6:50
           -        7:15         7:22        7:42        7:57          6:25          6:42        7:02        7:09           -


                                                                                                                                                                                      FARES
                                                                                                                                                                  LOCAL            INNER          INNER X-BUS +            INNER X-BUS +
                                                                                                                                     PAYING   WITH...                            X-BUS TRIP       LOCAL BUS TRIP            SUBWAY TRIP
                                                                                                                                                                        FARES
                                                                                                                                     CharlieCard          $1.25 1-BUS
                                                                                                                                               PAYING WITH...
                                                                                                                                                                     $2.80      $2.80
                                                                                                                                                                              2-BUS TRIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             $2.80
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         BUS + SUBWAY TRIP
                                               Route 558 indicated by shaded areas                                                                                     TRIP
                                                                                                                                     CharlieTicket           $1.50   $3.50       $5.00                                          $5.50
                                                                                                                                             CharlieCard
                                                                                                                                     Cash onboard            $1.50
                                                                                                                                                                   $1.25
                                                                                                                                                                     $3.50
                                                                                                                                                                               $1.25
                                                                                                                                                                                 $5.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                $1.70
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                $5.50
                                                                                                                                                  CharlieTicket
                                                                                                                                     T Pupil Badge*                  $0.60          $1.50
                                                                                                                                                                                        $1.40           $1.50
                                                                                                                                                                                                          $1.40                 $3.50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                $1.40
                                                                                                                                     Senior/TAP  Cash   onboard
                                                                                                                                                     card**          $0.40          $1.50
                                                                                                                                                                                        $1.40           $3.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                          $1.40                 $3.50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                $1.40
                                                                                                                                               T Pupil Badge*                        60¢                  60¢                      85¢
                                                                                                                                     Children  11 and under
                                                                                                                                           Senior/TAP           ride free when accompanied
                                                                                                                                                             card**                  40¢          by an adult.
                                                                                                                                                                                                          40¢                      60¢
                                                                                                                                     Blind persons ride free with MBTA Blind Access card or Mass. Comm. for the Blind ID card.
                                                                                                                                           Children 11 and under ride free when accompanied by an adult.
                      ALL BUSES ON THESE ROUTES ARE WHEELCHAIR ACCESSIBLE                                                            VALID Blind
                                                                                                                                             PASSES:
                                                                                                                                                 personsInner
                                                                                                                                                           ride Express
                                                                                                                                                                free withBus
                                                                                                                                                                           MBTAPass Blind
                                                                                                                                                                                      ($89/mo.),  card or
                                                                                                                                                                                          AccessOuter  Express   Comm.
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Mass. Bus  Pass
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        for($129/mo.),
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             the Blind ID card.
                                                                                                                                      Commuter Boat Pass ($198/mo), and Commuter Rail Zone 1-8 passes.
                Route 556                                                                       Route 558                                  VALID PASSES: Local Bus Pass ($40/mo.); LinkPass ($59/mo.); Student Pass* ($20/mo.);
                                                                                                                                             Senior/TAP
                                                                                                                                     * Available  to students
                                                                                                                                                          Pass** through   participating
                                                                                                                                                                    ($20/mo.);   and express
                                                                                                                                                                                          middle
                                                                                                                                                                                               bus,
                                                                                                                                                                                                 schools
                                                                                                                                                                                                    zoned,and
                                                                                                                                                                                                           interzoned,
                                                                                                                                                                                                               high schools.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       and boat passes.
          Waltham Highlands -                                                                  Riverside -                           ** Available to Medicare cardholders, seniors 65+, and persons with disabilities.
                                                                                                                                           * Available to students through participating middle schools and high schools.

  Downtown Boston via Newton Corner,                                                       Downtown Boston                           Local    Available
                                                                                                                                           ** bus  fare to  Medicare
                                                                                                                                                         applies         cardholders,
                                                                                                                                                                      if your   trip does    not65+
                                                                                                                                                                                        seniors      and persons
                                                                                                                                                                                                 include           with disabilities.
                                                                                                                                                                                                           the Mass.     Turnpike.

                                                                                                                                                                         Fall
                                                                                                                                                                          Fall2009
                                                                                                                                                                               2009 Holidays
                                                                                                                                                                                     Holidays
   Central Sq., Waltham & Newtonville                                                      via Newton Corner                         Oct. Oct.
                                                                                                                                          12: See
                                                                                                                                               12: See    Sept.
                                                                                                                                                   Sat. Sat. Sept.
                                                                                                                                                                7, Nov.
                                                                                                                                                                   7, Nov.
                                                                                                                                                                        26, 26,
                                                                                                                                                                            Dec.Dec.
                                                                                                                                                                                 25: 25:
                                                                                                                                                                                      SeeSee
                                                                                                                                                                                          Sun.
                                                                                                                                                                                             Sun.Nov.
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Nov.11:
                                                                                                                                                                                                        11:
                                                                                                                                                                                                          See
                                                                                                                                                                                                            See
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Wkdy.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Wkdy.
          Route 556
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               556 558
                                                                                                                                    via Newton Corner, Central Sq.,
                                                                                                Waltham Highlands - Downtown Boston Waltham & Newtonville
          Route 558                                                                             Riverside - Downtown Boston                                                                                                              via Newton Corner & Mass Turnpike
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     WAVERLEY
          N
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Indicates MBTA pass and         . fare sales locations. Fare vending machines are
                                                                                                                                                                                      Bentley            also located at all subway    Rd stations and at Dudley Station.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Tra
                                                            t.                                                                                                                                                                   Oa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ks                                     pelo                                                                                                                                                                                                                FALL September 5, 2009 - December 25, 2009
                                                                                                                                                                                      College Beaver




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Le
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Rd.
                                                      lin S
                                                                        Dale                                                                                                                                               l e y




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Waltham
                                                                                                                                                                                                     St.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Riverside -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ing
                                                                             S           t.                                                                                                                            e
                                                                                                                         554                                                                                        av
                                                   Tom



                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W                                                              73




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ton
                                                               Sum
                                                                   m
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Highlands -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 St.
                                                                                                            Dale
                           Waltham
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Downtown
                                                                                  it St.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Belm
                                                                                                                 St.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Be                                                                         ont
                          Highlands                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      554
                                                                                              556                             70A                                                                                           60                                         ave
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              rS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          St.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Downtown                           Boston
                                                                    Hammond St.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Belmont St.




                                                                                                                                                  Lyman St
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       t.
                                                                                                                                                                                                     t.
                                                                                                                                                                                                  nS
                                                                                              Bacon St.



                                                                                                                                                                                              de
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Boston                             via Newton Corner




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       t.
                                                                                                                                                                                           Lin




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      nS
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Main                                                                                       W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                arre
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  & Mass Pike




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 rre
                                                                                                                                                         20                                                            St.                                                                    556                                                                                                                                                                                              via Newton Corner




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     nS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            nS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        O




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Wa
  117             170                         Main St.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            H 558
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        t.                                                                                                 rc
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ha




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ingto



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Ave
                              70                                                                Central
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    igh
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          lan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  dA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   rd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          St                                                                   & Mass Pike
                                                        South St.


                                                                          Prospect St.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          rley
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ve.                                                                                                     .




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Lex
                                                                                                Square
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Serving: Central Square Waltham, Newtonville,




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    St.
          Cedarwood                                                                                                                                                                                      Gro




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        e
                                                                                               Waltham                                                                                                                                                                        70




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Wav
                                                                                                                                                                                                               ve S
          t                                                                                                                            WALTHAM P                                                                                                                                                         70A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    re
   sto
         nS                                                                                                                                                                                                            t.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Marriott Hotel and connections to




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Go
We                                                                                                                                     Fitchburg                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Fitchburg & Framingham Commuter Rail
                                                                                                                                       Commuter Rail                     558                                                                          W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       alt                                                                                  20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Fa
                                                                                                            .




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ye




                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .
                                                                                                          St




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            St
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Riv                                                      ha                                                                                                                                    tte
                                                                                                                                                     St.


                                                                                                                                                                                                         er
                                                                                                     nt




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      on
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 m




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        M
                                                                                                                                                                    Ca                                        St.                                                                                                                                                                                       St
                                                                                                  ce




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     St




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ai
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ey




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                St
                                       553                                                                                                                            lva                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .
                                                                                                                                                  ton




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                n
                                                                                               es




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority
                                                                                                                                                                                                               t. S
                                                                                                                                                                         ry




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           g
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     St
                                                                                                          Maple                                                                                                              Plea




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        rin
                                                                                           Cr




                                                                                                                                                                               St
                                                                                                                                                 New




                                                                                                                                   High S                                                                                                                                                            St.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  sant
          Brandeis                                                                                                   St.                    t.                                      .                                                                                                           sant




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Sp
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          St.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Plea                                                                     Watertown

                                                                                                                                                                                                              ell S
          University
                                                                                                                     St.




                                                                                                   A sh S                                                                                                                                                                                            Allison
                                                                                                                t.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Square
                                                                                                                                   ll St.




                          .
                                                                                                                                                       556                                                Farw
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Plgd
                                                                                                                 Moody




                        St
                    uth                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           California St.
                                                                                                                                 Lowe




                  So                                                                              Fuller                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Watertown




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Ch
                                                                                                                St.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            59                       Yard P




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ape
                                                                                  558
                                                                                                                                                                       W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Galen St
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               St
                                                                                                                                                                        alt




                                                                                                             170




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   l St
                                                                                                                                                                              ha




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ia                                             Routes 556 and 558 run
                   BRANDEIS/                                                                                                                                                                                                                           rn
                                                                                                                                                                                  m




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .
                                                                                                            505                                                                                                                                   lifo                                                    express to/from down-
                                                                                     Ru




                                                                                                                                                                                        St




                   ROBERTS ver                                                                                                                                                                                      Crafts St.             Ca




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .
                                                                                                                                                                                            .




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         town Boston weekdays
                                                                                         m




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           St                                                                                                                502
                                                                                           fo




                                              i
                                            sR
                                                                                                                                             De
                                                                                               rd




                                                                                                      Ave                                                                                                                                                                              n                          (see inside for details)
Roberts                              r le                                                                .                                       rby
                                                                                                                                                         St.                                                          Albemarle                                              rto
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   w
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             504




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Ad
                                 a                                                                                       Ri
                                                                                                                                                                                           .




                              Ch
                                                                                                                                                                                           St




                                                                                                                              ve                                                                                                                                         e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        556                           at




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         am
                                                                                                                                rS                                                                                       Plgd
                                                                                                                                                                                   Waltham




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             s
                                                                                                                                  t.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  St
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Cra                                                                                                        Newton
   St.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            fts                                                        t.
                                                                                                                               553                                                                                                                                                                   St.                                         ton S                                     Corner                                   501
 uth




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            hing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Waln



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    16                                                                                                  Was
So




                                                                                                                             St   554                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               57
                                                                                                                         ine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           u




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               52
                                                                     St.




                                                                                                                     P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      St.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         t St.




                                                                                                                                                             Rive                                            n                                      554 il
                                                                                                                                                                                                          tow t.
                                                                 ton




                                                                                                                                                                 r St.                                ter                                                Ra                                                                                                                                             Fr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 553           E ommuter




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               e St.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Connection to
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Wa ington S                                L                                                                                                                                                              an
                                                              ing




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I L
                                                                                                                                                         Elm




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Rts. 92, 93                                                                                                                                         kli
128                                                                                                                                                                                              Wa s h
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    N Vgham     C                                                                                                                              Franklin St.                           n
                                                           Lex




                                                                                                                  170                                                                                                            TO                                                                                                                                                                                       St




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ntr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NEW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ram
                                                                                                                                                              St.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DOWNTOWN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Co
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ter/F




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Ce
                                                                                                            WEST                                                                                                 ces
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CROSSING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ng
                                                          Star Market
                                                                                                          NEWTON Exit 16                                                                                      Wor                                                   59




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          re
                                     558

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  St.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                n St.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Cabo


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      St




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ss
                                                                                  30                                                                     Express to/from                                                Austi                                                                                           t Rd.



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                hire
                          .




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   is
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ne




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  St
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Federal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Connection to Rts
                          e




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Walnu




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Ot
                                                                                                                                                         Dudley Square                                                           nd Av
                       Av




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .
  95                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Patriot
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Li




                                                                                                                                                                                                                              la                                                                         7, 11, 448, 449, 459



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               e




                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ig h

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            von
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            in




                                                                                                                                                                                                                       H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ge




                                                                                                                                                         via MassPike
                     th




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        News
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       North
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         rL

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        an
                   al




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   St




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           De
                                                                                                                                             Express to/from
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Lowell Ave.



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     lve
              we




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         St.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            t




                                        AUBURNDALE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Or




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     St



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       High
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Su
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  cy




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Connection to Rts.
                                                                                                                                       16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             St.




                                                                                                                                             Boston via MassPike
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Si




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Ave.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   on
              on




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              n




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     m
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           au




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          t.      500, 504, 505, 553,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Plgd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          m

                                   Worcester/Framingham
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             st




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     hS
              m




                                                                                                                                                                              d St
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           er
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Ch


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ng




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Hig                554, 555, 556, 558
                                                                                                                                                     St               Highlan
          m




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              St
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Ki




                                      Commuter Rail                                                                       505
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Bedford St.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     erly
                                                                                                                          505                     le
         Co




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Connection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Kingston St.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               M
                                                                                                                                               mp                                                                                                                                ill Rt.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                to   S 11                            Edmands                                                            Re
                                            Grove St.




                     90                                                                                                                     Te                                                                                                                                                      t.                                                                                    dL                            Patriot                                                                        Visit mbta.com or call us to find a retail location




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Wav
                                                                                                                                                                    NEWTON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Park
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Essex St.                                                                                        News                                                                           where you can obtain CharlieCards and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CHINATOWN                                                                                                                  SOUTH                                                                                                  purchase MBTA passes and stored value.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ry




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Registry                                                                                                                   STATION
                                                                                                            St.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     te
                                                                                                                                                                            Chestnut St.




                                                                                                                                                 30
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .




                                   RIVERSIDE P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Ar




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   South St.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     of Motor                                                                                                                                                       Wa                                                            Customer Service/Travel Info 617-222-3200
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Centre St
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ln St.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       rd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ce




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Vehicles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ve.                                                                                                                    Ward St.                                                                  St.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     rfa




                                     "D" Branch                                                                                                                                                                                     ealth A                                                                30                                                                                                                                                                                     Toll Free................................1-800-392-6100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Linco
                                                                                                           n




                                                                                                                                                  Full
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Su




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           onw                                           United
                                                                                                          gto




                                                                                                                                                      er S                                                            Comm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ve.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Commercial
                                                                                                                                                          t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        wealth Ave.                                                                                               Hearing Impaired (TTY)...........617-222-5146
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      tic A
                                                                                                  shin




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Bank                                                                     Bea         Comm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ch S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 on
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Hom                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Web Site...............................www.mbta.com
                               t.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       n




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                t.
                                                                                                                                                                                   F i n a n c i a l District
                                                                                                                                                                                                     District                                                                  Kne
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Atla
                              S




                                                                                                Wa




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   r la
                                     500                                                                                          Golf Course                                       Financial                                                                                    ee   S ntd S
                          ove




                                                                                                                                                                                   D o w n t o w n Boston
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Boston
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             t.    Newton                                         Bus stops                                                                                                                       Schedules subject to change, please exit rear door.
                                                                                                                                                                                   Downtown
                                                                                                   WOODLAND P
                          Gr




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Route Terminus
                                    Woodland                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Centre                                                                                                                                                                           Arrive times are approximate, subject to traffic.
                                                                                                                                                                                               Map
                                                                                                                                                                                               M  ap                                                                                                               To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Plgd
                                   Golf Course                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MassPike                                From
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NO SMOKING on MBTA property.
              Exit 22                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MassPike                                  n St.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Beacon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  St.                                                                                                                                                Beaco                                                                                                        Driven by Customer Ser vice
     Site Traffic
 Trip Generation
Trip Distribution
 Development Type    Retail                      New       Office            Transit    New     Residential            Transit      New        Total
ITE Land Use Code     820     Shared   Pass-By   Retail     710     Shared   Credit    Office      220        Shared   Credit    Residential   New
              Size   19.300    Trips     25%              237.000    Trips     5%                290.000       Trips    25%

    Weekday Daily    2,332     314      504      1,514     2,592     108      124      2,360      1,880        260      406        1,214       5,088

 Weekday Morning
              IN      36        5         6       25       329        1        16       312         29          3         7          19        356
            OUT       23        3         6       14        45        2         2        41        117          3        29          85        140
           Total      59        8        12       39       374        3        18       353        146          6        36         104        496

 Weekday Evening
              IN      104       11       23        70       59        3         3        53        115          15       25          75        198
            OUT       108       16       23        69      286        4        14       268         62           9       13          40        377
            Total     212       27       46       139      345        7        17       321        177          24       38         115        575
ITE TRIP GENERATION WORKSHEET
(8th Edition, Updated 2008)

              LANDUSE: General Office Building
         LANDUSE CODE: 710                                   Independent Variable --- 1,000 Sq. Feet Gross Floor Area

             JOB NAME:                                          FLOOR AREA (KSF):           237.0
           JOB NUMBER:



                                                               WEEKDAY
                                                                                                                              Directional
RATES:                                                    Total Trip Ends                     Independent Variable Range      Distribution
                           # Studies     R^2      Average       Low          High          Average       Low         High    Enter     Exit
                  DAILY        78        0.80      11.01        3.58         28.80           199          0          1,300   50%      50%
                AM PEAK       217        0.83       1.55        0.60          5.98           223          0          2,500   88%      12%
                PM PEAK       235        0.82       1.49        0.49          6.39           216          0          2,500   17%      83%


TRIPS:                                                      BY AVERAGE                              BY REGRESSION
                                                    Total       Enter         Exit          Total        Enter     Exit
                                         DAILY      2,609       1,305        1,305          2593         1296     1296
                                       AM PEAK       367         323           44            374          329      45
                                       PM PEAK       353          60          293            344          59       286




                                                              SATURDAY
                                                                                                                              Directional
RATES:                                                    Total Trip Ends                     Independent Variable Range      Distribution
                           # Studies     R^2      Average       Low          High          Average       Low         High    Enter     Exit
              DAILY           17         0.66      2.37         0.59         14.67           78           0           190    50%      50%
  PEAK OF GENERATOR           10         0.59      0.41         0.16          1.57           97           0           190    54%      46%


TRIPS:                                                      BY AVERAGE                              BY REGRESSION
                                                    Total       Enter         Exit          Total        Enter    Exit
                                   DAILY            562          281          281           526           263     263
                      PEAK OF GENERATOR              97          52           45             74           40      34




                                                                SUNDAY
                                                                                                                              Directional
RATES:                                                    Total Trip Ends                     Independent Variable Range      Distribution
                           # Studies     R^2      Average       Low           High         Average       Low         High    Enter     Exit
              DAILY           17         0.50      0.98         0.19          7.33           78           0           190    50%      50%
  PEAK OF GENERATOR           10         0.56      0.14         0.06          0.37           97           0           190    58%      42%


TRIPS:                                                      BY AVERAGE                              BY REGRESSION
                                                    Total       Enter         Exit          Total        Enter    Exit
                                   DAILY            232          116          116           150           75      75
                      PEAK OF GENERATOR              33          19           14             22           13       9




\\MAWALD\ld\10865.00\ssheets\Traffic\2012 TIAS UPDATE\10865_Volumes.xlsx
                                                      General Office Building, 710                                             2/2/2012
ITE TRIP GENERATION WORKSHEET
(8th Edition, Updated 2008)

              LANDUSE: Shopping Center (non-Christmas)
         LANDUSE CODE: 820                                 Independent Variable --- 1,000 Sq. Feet Gross Floor Area

             JOB NAME:                                        FLOOR AREA (KSF):            19.3
           JOB NUMBER:



                                                             WEEKDAY
                                                                                                                            Directional
RATES:                                                   Total Trip Ends                    Independent Variable Range      Distribution
                          # Studies    R^2       Average       Low          High         Average       Low         High    Enter     Exit
               DAILY         302       0.78       42.94       12.50        270.89          328          0          1,600   50%      50%
AM PEAK (ADJACENT ST)        101       0.52        1.00        0.10         9.05           296          0          1,600   61%      39%
PM PEAK (ADJACENT ST)        412       0.81        3.73        0.68        29.27           379          0          2,500   49%      51%


TRIPS:                                                    BY AVERAGE                              BY REGRESSION
                                                  Total       Enter         Exit          Total        Enter     Exit
                                   DAILY          829          414          414           2331         1166     1166
                    AM PEAK (ADJACENT ST)          19          12            8             58           36       23
                    PM PEAK (ADJACENT ST)          72          35           37             211          104      108




                                                            SATURDAY
                                                                                                                            Directional
RATES:                                                   Total Trip Ends                    Independent Variable Range      Distribution
                          # Studies    R^2       Average       Low          High         Average       Low         High    Enter     Exit
              DAILY          123       0.82       49.97       16.70        227.50          450          0          1,600   50%      50%
  PEAK OF GENERATOR          127       0.83        4.89        1.46        18.32           450          0          1,600   52%      48%


TRIPS:                                                    BY AVERAGE                              BY REGRESSION
                                                  Total       Enter         Exit          Total        Enter     Exit
                                   DAILY          964          482          482           3,278        1,639    1,639
                      PEAK OF GENERATOR            94          49           45             294          153      141




                                                              SUNDAY
                                                                                                                            Directional
RATES:                                                   Total Trip Ends                    Independent Variable Range      Distribution
                          # Studies    R^2       Average       Low          High         Average       Low         High    Enter     Exit
              DAILY          77        0.52       25.24        4.15        148.15          439          0          1,600   50%      50%
  PEAK OF GENERATOR          39        N/A         3.12        0.39        12.40           369          0          1,300   49%      51%


TRIPS:                                                    BY AVERAGE                              BY REGRESSION
                                                  Total       Enter         Exit          Total        Enter     Exit
                                   DAILY          487          244          244           4516         2258     2258
                      PEAK OF GENERATOR            60          30           31             N/A          N/A      N/A




\\MAWALD\ld\10865.00\ssheets\Traffic\2012 TIAS UPDATE\10865_Volumes.xlsx
                                                         Shopping Center, 820                                                2/2/2012
ITE TRIP GENERATION WORKSHEET
(8th Edition, Updated 2008)

              LANDUSE: Apartment
         LANDUSE CODE: 220                               Independent Variable --- Number of Units

             JOB NAME:                      Peak Hour Traffic on Adjacent Street:        290        units
           JOB NUMBER:



                                                           WEEKDAY
                                                                                                                         Directional
RATES:                                                Total Trip Ends                    Independent Variable Range      Distribution
                         # Studies   R^2      Average       Low          High         Average      Low          High    Enter     Exit
               DAILY        88       0.87      6.65         1.27         12.50          210          0          1,000   50%      50%
AM PEAK (ADJACENT ST)       78       0.83      0.51         0.10         1.02           235          0          1,100   20%      80%
PM PEAK (ADJACENT ST)       90       0.77      0.62         0.10         1.64           233          0          1,100   65%      35%


TRIPS:                                                  BY AVERAGE                              BY REGRESSION
                                                Total       Enter         Exit          Total        Enter    Exit
                                 DAILY          1,929        74           74            1881          940     940
                  AM PEAK (ADJACENT ST)          148         30           118           146           29      117
                  PM PEAK (ADJACENT ST)          180         117          63            177           115     62




                                                          SATURDAY
                                                                                                                         Directional
RATES:                                                Total Trip Ends                    Independent Variable Range      Distribution
                         # Studies   R^2      Average       Low          High         Average      Low          High    Enter     Exit
              DAILY         15       0.85      6.39         2.84         8.40           175          65          360    50%      50%
  PEAK OF GENERATOR         14       0.56      0.52         0.26         1.05           178          65          360    Peak Distribution
                                                                                                                          Not Availble


TRIPS:                                                  BY AVERAGE                              BY REGRESSION
                                                Total       Enter         Exit          Total        Enter     Exit
                                 DAILY          1,853        927          927           2020         1,010    1,010
                    PEAK OF GENERATOR            151         NA           NA            138           NA       NA




                                                            SUNDAY
                                                                                                                         Directional
RATES:                                                Total Trip Ends                    Independent Variable Range      Distribution
                         # Studies   R^2      Average       Low          High         Average      Low          High    Enter     Exit
              DAILY         14       0.82      5.86         3.21         7.53           182          90          360    50%      50%
  PEAK OF GENERATOR         13        --       0.51         0.26         1.43           186          90          360    Peak Distribution
                                                                                                                          Not Availble


TRIPS:                                                  BY AVERAGE                              BY REGRESSION
                                                Total       Enter         Exit          Total        Enter    Exit
                                 DAILY          1,699        927          927           1761          880     880
                    PEAK OF GENERATOR            148         NA           NA             NA           NA      NA
values in                     require user entry; all other values are static or calculated

                                              Job Name:    Riverside MBTA
                                            Job Number:    10865
                                                Analyst:   JMD
                                                   Date:   4/8/2009                                                                                 Land Use A
                                            Time Period:   Weekday Morning                                                                          ITE LUC    820                     Size:              19

                                                                                                                        Exit to External                              Total       Internal      External
                                                                                                                                20                            Enter    36             5            31
                                                                                                                                31                             Exit    23             3            20
                                                                                                                    Enter from External                       Total    59             8            51
                                                                                                                                                                 %    100%          13%           87%

                                                                                                                  11%           3                       9%             3              4%            1                      3%         1
                                                                                                              Demand                                Demand                                     Demand                   Demand
                                                                                                                    3                                     3                                         1                                 1
                                                                                                              Balanced                              Balanced                                   Balanced                          Balanced
                                                                                                  33%              10                         38%        44                                        22%             10                15%        49
                                                                                               Demand                                      Demand                                                              Demand                       Demand

                                            Land Use B                                                                                                                                                                                      Land Use C
                                            ITE LUC    220                             Size:            290                                Demand                          Balanced                            Demand                       ITE LUC    710                       Size:         237

           Exit to External                                      Total            Internal      External                                      0%          0                   0                    0%              0                                         Total       Internal        External    Enter from External
                   114                             Enter          29                  3            26                                         3%          1                   1                    2%              1                             Enter        329            1             328             328
                   26                               Exit          117                 3           114                                                                                                                                             Exit        45             2              43             43
       Enter from External                         Total          146                 7           139                                      Demand                          Balanced                            Demand                            Total        374            3             371       Exit to External
                                                      %          100%                5%           95%                                                                                                                                               %        100%           1%             99%


                                                                                                                                     Net External Trips for Multi-Use Development
                                                                                                              Land Use A                              Land Use B                               Land Use C                           Total
                                                                                     Enter                        31                                       26                                     328                                385
                                                                                       Exit                       20                                      114                                      43                               176
                                                                                     Total                        51                                      139                                     371                               561                  Internal Capture Rate
                                                                  Single-Use Trip Gen. Est.                       59                                      146                                     374                               579                             3.0%




   \\MAWALD\ld\10865.00\ssheets\Traffic\2012 TIAS UPDATE\10865_Volumes.xlsx                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                AM
values in                     require user entry; all other values are static or calculated

                                              Job Name:    Riverside MBTA
                                            Job Number:    10865
                                                Analyst:   JMD
                                                   Date:   4/8/2009                                                                                 Land Use A
                                            Time Period:   Weekday Evening                                                                          ITE LUC    820                     Size:              19

                                                                                                                        Exit to External                              Total       Internal      External
                                                                                                                                92                            Enter    104           11            93
                                                                                                                                93                             Exit    108           16            92
                                                                                                                    Enter from External                       Total    212           28           184
                                                                                                                                                                 %    100%          13%           87%

                                                                                                                  12%           13                      9%             9              2%            2                      3%         3
                                                                                                              Demand                                Demand                                     Demand                   Demand
                                                                                                                   13                                     9                                         2                                 3
                                                                                                              Balanced                              Balanced                                   Balanced                          Balanced
                                                                                                  31%              36                         53%        33                                        23%             66                31%        18
                                                                                               Demand                                      Demand                                                              Demand                       Demand

                                            Land Use B                                                                                                                                                                                      Land Use C
                                            ITE LUC    220                             Size:            290                                Demand                          Balanced                            Demand                       ITE LUC    710                       Size:         237

           Exit to External                                      Total            Internal      External                                      0%          0                   0                    0%              0                                         Total       Internal        External    Enter from External
                   53                              Enter          115                15           100                                         2%          2                   2                    2%              6                             Enter        59             3              56             56
                   100                              Exit          62                  9            53                                                                                                                                             Exit        286            4             282             282
       Enter from External                         Total          177                25           152                                      Demand                          Balanced                            Demand                            Total        345            8             337       Exit to External
                                                      %          100%               14%           86%                                                                                                                                               %        100%           2%             98%


                                                                                                                                     Net External Trips for Multi-Use Development
                                                                                                              Land Use A                              Land Use B                               Land Use C                           Total
                                                                                     Enter                        93                                      100                                      56                               248
                                                                                       Exit                       92                                       53                                     282                               426
                                                                                     Total                       184                                      152                                     337                               674                  Internal Capture Rate
                                                                  Single-Use Trip Gen. Est.                      212                                      177                                     345                               734                             8.2%




   \\MAWALD\ld\10865.00\ssheets\Traffic\2012 TIAS UPDATE\10865_Volumes.xlsx                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PM
values in                     require user entry; all other values are static or calculated

                                              Job Name:    Riverside MBTA
                                            Job Number:    10865
                                                Analyst:   MAS
                                                   Date:   4/8/2009                                                                              Land Use A
                                            Time Period:   Weekday Daily                                                                         ITE LUC    820                    Size:              19

                                                                                                                    Exit to External                            Total          Internal     External
                                                                                                                           1003                        Enter    1,166            152         1,014
                                                                                                                           1014                         Exit    1,166            163         1,003
                                                                                                                Enter from External                    Total    2,332            315         2,017
                                                                                                                                                          %     100%             14%          87%

                                                                                                              11%          128                       9%           105            4%             47                     3%        35
                                                                                                          Demand                                 Demand                                    Demand                   Demand
                                                                                                              128                                    105                                        47                                35
                                                                                                          Balanced                               Balanced                                  Balanced                          Balanced
                                                                                              33%             310                         38%        357                                       22%            285                15%       194
                                                                                           Demand                                      Demand                                                              Demand                       Demand

                                            Land Use B                                                                                                                                                                                  Land Use C
                                            ITE LUC    220                         Size:            290                                Demand                           Balanced                           Demand                       ITE LUC    710                   Size:         237

           Exit to External                                    Total          Internal        External                                    0%         0                    0                    0%             0                                         Total       Internal     External    Enter from Ex
                   835                             Enter        940             154             786                                       3%         28                   26                   2%             26                             Enter      1,296          35         1,261           1261
                   786                              Exit        940             105             835                                                                                                                                           Exit      1,296          73         1,223           1223
       Enter from External                         Total       1,880            259            1,621                                   Demand                           Balanced                           Demand                            Total      2,592         108         2,484      Exit to Extern
                                                      %        100%             14%             86%                                                                                                                                             %       100%          4%           96%


                                                                                                                                 Net External Trips for Multi-Use Development
                                                                                                          Land Use A                              Land Use B                               Land Use C                           Total
                                                                                 Enter                       1014                                     786                                     1261                              3061
                                                                                   Exit                      1003                                     835                                     1223                              3061
                                                                                 Total                       2017                                     1621                                    2484                              6123                 Internal Capture Rate
                                                              Single-Use Trip Gen. Est.                      2332                                     1880                                    2592                              6804                           10.0%




     \\MAWALD\ld\10865.00\ssheets\Traffic\2012 TIAS UPDATE\10865_Volumes.xlsx                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Daily
Residential Component                                                                                                                                                     Total of Residence                                                                                                                           Cumulative Total

                                                                                                                                            MassPike                                              Newton                                Local                                            MassPike                                            Newton                                Local
                                                                                                                                            (East) via                                         Street/Concor                         (Newton) via                                        (East) via                                       Street/Concor                         (Newton) via
                                                                Adjustment      Adjusted     Percent of   Cumulative   Route 16   Woodland Route 16 and   MassPike   Route 128    Route 128       d Street     Lexington   Auburn     Woodland                    Route 16   Woodland   Route 16 and MassPike   Route 128    Route 128       d Street     Lexington   Auburn     Woodland
        Residence State-County-MCD Name             Count       Percentage1      Count         Total         Total      (West)     (West)   Route 128      (West)     (South)      (North)      (Northwest)     (north)     (east)      Road      TOTAL            (West)     (West)     Route 128    (West)     (South)      (North)      (Northwest)     (north)     (east)      Road
Boston city Suffolk Co. MA                          17259           0.5           8630         21.3%        21.3%                              90%                      5%                                                    5%                     100%           0.0%       0.0%        19.2%       0.0%       1.1%         0.0%            0.0%         0.0%        1.1%       0.0%         21.3%
Newton city Middlesex Co. MA                        12765           0.5           6383         15.7%        37.0%                                                       30%                                       5%         15%         50%         100%           0.0%       0.0%        0.0%        0.0%       4.7%         0.0%            0.0%         0.8%        2.4%       7.9%         15.7%
Wellesley town Norfolk Co. MA                        5403           0.7           3782         9.3%         46.4%        80%                                            20%                                                                          100%           7.5%       0.0%         0.0%       0.0%       1.9%         0.0%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          9.3%
Cambridge city Middlesex Co. MA                      3672            1            3672         9.1%         55.4%                              100%                                                                                                  100%           0.0%       0.0%         9.1%       0.0%       0.0%         0.0%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          9.1%
Waltham city Middlesex Co. MA                        2674            1            2674         6.6%         62.0%                                                                    60%                         40%                                 100%           0.0%       0.0%         0.0%       0.0%       0.0%         4.0%            0.0%         2.6%        0.0%       0.0%          6.6%
Weston town Middlesex Co. MA                         1310            1            1310         3.2%         65.3%                                                                    20%           80%                                               100%           0.0%       0.0%         0.0%       0.0%       0.0%         0.6%            2.6%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          3.2%
Brookline town Norfolk Co. MA                        1249            1            1249         3.1%         68.3%                              35%                     55%                                                               10%         100%           0.0%       0.0%         1.1%       0.0%       1.7%         0.0%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.3%          3.1%
Needham town Norfolk Co. MA                          1157            1            1157         2.9%         71.2%        20%                                           80%                                                                           100%           0.6%       0.0%         0.0%       0.0%       2.3%         0.0%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          2.9%
Framingham town Middlesex Co. MA                     1111            1            1111         2.7%         73.9%        25%                                           75%                                                                           100%           0.7%       0.0%         0.0%       0.0%       2.1%         0.0%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          2.7%
Watertown city Middlesex Co. MA                      786             1            786          1.9%         75.9%                              75%                                                                          25%                      100%           0.0%       0.0%         1.5%       0.0%       0.0%         0.0%            0.0%         0.0%        0.5%       0.0%          1.9%
Burlington town Middlesex Co. MA                     758             1            758          1.9%         77.7%                                                                    100%                                                            100%           0.0%       0.0%         0.0%       0.0%       0.0%         1.9%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          1.9%
Natick town Middlesex Co. MA                         756             1            756          1.9%         79.6%        40%                                60%                                                                                      100%           0.7%       0.0%         0.0%       1.1%       0.0%         0.0%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          1.9%
Quincy city Norfolk Co. MA                           581             1             581         1.4%         81.0%                              40%                     60%                                                                           100%           0.0%       0.0%         0.6%       0.0%       0.9%         0.0%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          1.4%
Lexington town Middlesex Co. MA                      492             1            492          1.2%         82.3%                                                                    85%                         15%                                 100%           0.0%       0.0%         0.0%       0.0%       0.0%         1.0%            0.0%         0.2%        0.0%       0.0%          1.2%
Bedford town Middlesex Co. MA                        491             1            491          1.2%         83.5%                                                                    100%                                                            100%           0.0%       0.0%         0.0%       0.0%       0.0%         1.2%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          1.2%
Marlbor. city Middlesex Co. MA                       455             1            455          1.1%         84.6%                                          100%                                                                                      100%           0.0%       0.0%         0.0%       1.1%       0.0%         0.0%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          1.1%
Medford city Middlesex Co. MA                        399             1            399          1.0%         85.6%                              70%                                   30%                                                             100%           0.0%       0.0%         0.7%       0.0%       0.0%         0.3%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          1.0%
Woburn city Middlesex Co. MA                         375             1            375          0.9%         86.5%                                                                    100%                                                            100%           0.0%       0.0%         0.0%       0.0%       0.0%         0.9%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.9%
Norwood town Norfolk Co. MA                          365             1            365          0.9%         87.4%                                                      100%                                                                          100%           0.0%       0.0%         0.0%       0.0%       0.9%         0.0%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.9%
Malden city Middlesex Co. MA                         340             1            340          0.8%         88.2%                              100%                                                                                                  100%           0.0%       0.0%         0.8%       0.0%       0.0%         0.0%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.8%
Somerville city Middlesex Co. MA                     333             1            333          0.8%         89.1%                              100%                                                                                                  100%           0.0%       0.0%         0.8%       0.0%       0.0%         0.0%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.8%
Dedham town Norfolk Co. MA                           325             1            325          0.8%         89.9%                                                      100%                                                                          100%           0.0%       0.0%         0.0%       0.0%       0.8%         0.0%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.8%
Lowell city Middlesex Co. MA                         317             1            317          0.8%         90.6%                                                                    100%                                                            100%           0.0%       0.0%         0.0%       0.0%       0.0%         0.8%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.8%
Billerica town Middlesex Co. MA                      289             1            289          0.7%         91.4%                                                                    100%                                                            100%           0.0%       0.0%         0.0%       0.0%       0.0%         0.7%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.7%
Andover town Essex Co. MA                            264             1            264          0.7%         92.0%                                                                    100%                                                            100%           0.0%       0.0%         0.0%       0.0%       0.0%         0.7%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.7%
Westbor. town Worcester Co. MA                        256            1             256          0.6%        92.6%                                          100%                                                                                      100%           0.0%       0.0%         0.0%       0.6%       0.0%         0.0%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.6%
Canton town Norfolk Co. MA                           239             1            239          0.6%         93.2%                                                      100%                                                                          100%           0.0%       0.0%         0.0%       0.0%       0.6%         0.0%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.6%
Braintree town Norfolk Co. MA                        237             1            237          0.6%         93.8%                                                      100%                                                                          100%           0.0%       0.0%         0.0%       0.0%       0.6%         0.0%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.6%
Worcester city Worcester Co. MA                       236            1             236          0.6%        94.4%                                          100%                                                                                      100%           0.0%       0.0%         0.0%       0.6%       0.0%         0.0%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.6%
Concord town Middlesex Co. MA                        224             1            224          0.6%         94.9%                                                                    100%                                                            100%           0.0%       0.0%         0.0%       0.0%       0.0%         0.6%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.6%
Chelmsford town Middlesex Co. MA                     222             1            222          0.5%         95.5%                                                                    100%                                                            100%           0.0%       0.0%         0.0%       0.0%       0.0%         0.5%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.5%
Everett city Middlesex Co. MA                        215             1             215         0.5%         96.0%                              100%                                                                                                  100%           0.0%       0.0%         0.5%       0.0%       0.0%         0.0%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.5%
Sudbury town Middlesex Co. MA                        212             1            212          0.5%         96.6%                                           30%                      30%           40%                                               100%           0.0%       0.0%        0.0%        0.2%       0.0%         0.2%            0.2%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.5%
Westwood town Norfolk Co. MA                         198             1            198          0.5%         97.0%                                                      100%                                                                          100%           0.0%       0.0%         0.0%       0.0%       0.5%         0.0%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.5%
Wilmington town Middlesex Co. MA                     189             1            189          0.5%         97.5%                                                                    100%                                                            100%           0.0%       0.0%         0.0%       0.0%       0.0%         0.5%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.5%
Belmont town Middlesex Co. MA                        177             1            177          0.4%         97.9%                                                                    100%                                                            100%           0.0%       0.0%         0.0%       0.0%       0.0%         0.4%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.4%
Chelsea city Suffolk Co. MA                          169             1            169          0.4%         98.4%                              35%                                   45%                         10%        10%                      100%           0.0%       0.0%        0.1%        0.0%       0.0%         0.2%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.4%
Wayland town Middlesex Co. MA                        145             1            145          0.4%         98.7%                                           45%                      20%           35%                                               100%           0.0%       0.0%        0.0%        0.2%       0.0%         0.1%            0.1%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.4%
Hopkinton town Middlesex Co. MA                      137             1            137          0.3%         99.1%                   100%                                                                                                             100%           0.0%       0.3%         0.0%       0.0%       0.0%         0.0%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.3%
Arlington town Middlesex Co. MA                      136             1            136          0.3%         99.4%                              15%                                   75%                         10%                                 100%           0.0%       0.0%        0.1%        0.0%       0.0%         0.3%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.3%
Wakefield town Middlesex Co. MA                      129             1            129          0.3%         99.7%                              10%                                   90%                                                             100%           0.0%       0.0%         0.0%       0.0%       0.0%         0.3%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.3%
Acton town Middlesex Co. MA                          118             1            118          0.3%         100.0%                                                                   100%                                                            100%           0.0%       0.0%         0.0%       0.0%       0.0%         0.3%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.3%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0% CHECK     0.0%       0.0%         0.0%       0.0%       0.0%         0.0%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.0%
                                                                                40,533           1                                                                                                                                                                  9.5%       0.3%        34.4%       3.8%       17.9%        15.3%           2.9%         3.7%        4.0%       8.2%        100.0%
1 Adjustments were made for possible transit usage and for Local employment opportunities.                                                                                                                                                                           10          0           35          4          18           15              3            3           4          8            100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     10                      35          5          20           15              3            3           4          5            100
Office/Retail Components                                                                                                                                                  Total of Residence                                                                                                                           Cumulative Total

                                                                                                                                            MassPike                                              Newton                                Local                                            MassPike                                            Newton                                Local
                                                                                                                                            (East) via                                         Street/Concor                         (Newton) via                                        (East) via                                       Street/Concor                         (Newton) via
                                                                Adjustment      Adjusted     Percent of   Cumulative   Route 16   Woodland Route 16 and   MassPike   Route 128    Route 128       d Street     Lexington   Auburn     Woodland                    Route 16   Woodland   Route 16 and MassPike   Route 128    Route 128       d Street     Lexington   Auburn     Woodland
        Residence State-County-MCD Name             Count       Percentage1      Count         Total         Total      (West)     (West)   Route 128      (West)     (South)      (North)      (Northwest)     (north)     (east)      Road      TOTAL            (West)     (West)     Route 128    (West)     (South)      (North)      (Northwest)     (north)     (east)      Road
Newton city Middlesex Co. MA                        13013           0.3           3904         8.1%          8.1%         3%         2%        8%                       28%                                       8%         25%         27%         100%           0.2%       0.1%        0.7%        0.0%       2.3%         0.0%            0.0%         0.7%        2.0%       2.2%          8.1%
Boston city Suffolk Co. MA                           8230           0.4           3292         6.9%         15.0%                              70%                      25%                                                               5%         100%           0.0%       0.0%        4.8%        0.0%       1.7%         0.0%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.3%          6.9%
Wellesley town Norfolk Co. MA                        4994           0.6           2996         6.2%         21.2%        90%                                            10%                                                                          100%           5.6%       0.0%        0.0%        0.0%       0.6%         0.0%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          6.2%
Waltham city Middlesex Co. MA                        2620            1            2620         5.5%         26.7%                                                                    60%                         40%                                 100%           0.0%       0.0%        0.0%        0.0%       0.0%         3.3%            0.0%         2.2%        0.0%       0.0%          5.5%
Framingham town Middlesex Co. MA                     2416            1            2416         5.0%         31.7%        25%                                75%                                                                                      100%           1.3%       0.0%        0.0%        3.8%       0.0%         0.0%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          5.0%
Natick town Middlesex Co. MA                         2076            1            2076         4.3%         36.0%       50.0%                               50%                                                                                      100%           2.2%       0.0%        0.0%        2.2%       0.0%         0.0%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          4.3%
Needham town Norfolk Co. MA                          1763            1            1763         3.7%         39.7%        20%                                           80%                                                                           100%           0.7%       0.0%        0.0%        0.0%       2.9%         0.0%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          3.7%
Brookline town Norfolk Co. MA                        1732            1            1732         3.6%         43.3%                              35%                     55%                                                               10%         100%           0.0%       0.0%        1.3%        0.0%       2.0%         0.0%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.4%          3.6%
Watertown city Middlesex Co. MA                      1491            1            1491         3.1%         46.4%                              75%                                                                          25%                      100%           0.0%       0.0%        2.3%        0.0%       0.0%         0.0%            0.0%         0.0%        0.8%       0.0%          3.1%
Cambridge city Middlesex Co. MA                      1396            1            1396         2.9%         49.3%                              100%                                                                                                  100%           0.0%       0.0%        2.9%        0.0%       0.0%         0.0%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          2.9%
Somerville city Middlesex Co. MA                     1307            1            1307         2.7%         52.0%                              100%                                                                                                  100%           0.0%       0.0%        2.7%        0.0%       0.0%         0.0%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          2.7%
Weston town Middlesex Co. MA                         1471            1            1471         3.1%         55.1%                                                                    20%           80%                                               100%           0.0%       0.0%        0.0%        0.0%       0.0%         0.6%            2.5%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          3.1%
Quincy city Norfolk Co. MA                           977             1             977         2.0%         57.1%                              30%                     70%                                                                           100%           0.0%       0.0%        0.6%        0.0%       1.4%         0.0%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          2.0%
Norwood town Norfolk Co. MA                          829             1            829          1.7%         58.9%                                                      100%                                                                          100%           0.0%       0.0%        0.0%        0.0%       1.7%         0.0%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          1.7%
Arlington town Middlesex Co. MA                      736             1            736          1.5%         60.4%                              15%                                   75%                         10%                                 100%           0.0%       0.0%        0.2%        0.0%       0.0%         1.1%            0.0%         0.2%        0.0%       0.0%          1.5%
Dedham town Norfolk Co. MA                           721             1            721          1.5%         61.9%                                                      100%                                                                          100%           0.0%       0.0%        0.0%        0.0%       1.5%         0.0%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          1.5%
Marlbor. city Middlesex Co. MA                       716             1            716          1.5%         63.4%                                           90%                                    10%                                               100%           0.0%       0.0%        0.0%        1.3%       0.0%         0.0%            0.1%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          1.5%
Walpole town Norfolk Co. MA                          580             1            580          1.2%         64.6%                                                      100%                                                                          100%           0.0%       0.0%        0.0%        0.0%       1.2%         0.0%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          1.2%
Lowell city Middlesex Co. MA                         552             1            552          1.1%         65.8%                                                                    100%                                                            100%           0.0%       0.0%        0.0%        0.0%       0.0%         1.1%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          1.1%
Everett city Middlesex Co. MA                        484             1            484          1.0%         66.8%                              70%                                   30%                                                             100%           0.0%       0.0%        0.7%        0.0%       0.0%         0.3%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          1.0%
Medford city Middlesex Co. MA                        470             1            470          1.0%         67.7%                                           50%                      50%                                                             100%           0.0%       0.0%        0.0%        0.5%       0.0%         0.5%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          1.0%
Weymouth town Norfolk Co. MA                         454             1            454          0.9%         68.7%                              10%                     90%                                                                           100%           0.0%       0.0%        0.1%        0.0%       0.9%         0.0%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.9%
Ashland town Middlesex Co. MA                        439             1            439          0.9%         69.6%        10%                                90%                                                                                      100%           0.1%       0.0%        0.0%        0.8%       0.0%         0.0%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.9%
Wayland town Middlesex Co. MA                        436             1            436          0.9%         70.5%                                           45%                      20%           35%                                               100%           0.0%       0.0%        0.0%        0.4%       0.0%         0.2%            0.3%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.9%
Belmont town Middlesex Co. MA                        435             1            435          0.9%         71.4%                              35%                                   45%                         10%        10%                      100%           0.0%       0.0%        0.3%        0.0%       0.0%         0.4%            0.0%         0.1%        0.1%       0.0%          0.9%
Holliston town Middlesex Co. MA                      434             1            434          0.9%         72.3%        45%                                55%                                                                                      100%           0.4%       0.0%        0.0%        0.5%       0.0%         0.0%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.9%
Malden city Middlesex Co. MA                         415             1            415          0.9%         73.2%                              65%                                   35%                                                             100%           0.0%       0.0%        0.6%        0.0%       0.0%         0.3%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.9%
Brockton city Plymouth Co. MA                         411            1             411         0.9%          74.0%                                                     100%                                                                          100%           0.0%       0.0%        0.0%        0.0%       0.9%         0.0%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.9%
Lexington town Middlesex Co. MA                      404             1            404          0.8%         74.9%                                                                    85%                         15%                                 100%           0.0%       0.0%        0.0%        0.0%       0.0%         0.7%            0.0%         0.1%        0.0%       0.0%          0.8%
Franklin city Norfolk Co. MA                         400             1            400          0.8%         75.7%                                           85%        15%                                                                           100%           0.0%       0.0%        0.0%        0.7%       0.1%         0.0%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.8%
Westwood town Norfolk Co. MA                         392             1            392          0.8%         76.5%                                                      100%                                                                          100%           0.0%       0.0%        0.0%        0.0%       0.8%         0.0%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.8%
Sudbury town Middlesex Co. MA                        392             1            392          0.8%         77.3%                                           30%                      30%           40%                                               100%           0.0%       0.0%        0.0%        0.2%       0.0%         0.2%            0.3%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.8%
Randolph town Norfolk Co. MA                         392             1            392          0.8%         78.2%                                                      100%                                                                          100%           0.0%       0.0%        0.0%        0.0%       0.8%         0.0%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.8%
Canton town Norfolk Co. MA                           384             1            384          0.8%         79.0%                                                      100%                                                                          100%           0.0%       0.0%        0.0%        0.0%       0.8%         0.0%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.8%
Medfield town Norfolk Co. MA                         373             1            373          0.8%         79.7%        30%                                           70%                                                                           100%           0.2%       0.0%        0.0%        0.0%       0.5%         0.0%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.8%
Stoughton town Norfolk Co. MA                        361             1            361          0.8%         80.5%                                                      100%                                                                          100%           0.0%       0.0%        0.0%        0.0%       0.8%         0.0%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.8%
Billerica town Middlesex Co. MA                      341             1            341          0.7%         81.2%                                                                    100%                                                            100%           0.0%       0.0%        0.0%        0.0%       0.0%         0.7%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.7%
Woburn city Middlesex Co. MA                         327             1            327          0.7%         81.9%                                                                    100%                                                            100%           0.0%       0.0%        0.0%        0.0%       0.0%         0.7%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.7%
Sharon town Norfolk Co. MA                           300             1            300          0.6%         82.5%                                                      100%                                                                          100%           0.0%       0.0%        0.0%        0.0%       0.6%         0.0%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.6%
Hopkinton town Middlesex Co. MA                      296             1            296          0.6%         83.1%        5%                                95%                                                                                       100%           0.0%       0.0%        0.0%        0.6%       0.0%         0.0%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.6%
Worcester city Worcester Co. MA                       292            1             292         0.6%          83.7%                                         100%                                                                                      100%           0.0%       0.0%        0.0%        0.6%       0.0%         0.0%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.6%
Milford town Worcester Co. MA                        285             1             285         0.6%         84.3%                                          100%                                                                                      100%           0.0%       0.0%        0.0%        0.6%       0.0%         0.0%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.6%
Milton town Norfolk Co. MA                           284             1            284          0.6%         84.9%                              10%                     90%                                                                           100%           0.0%       0.0%        0.1%        0.0%       0.5%         0.0%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.6%
Braintree town Norfolk Co. MA                        282             1            282          0.6%         85.5%                              15%                     85%                                                                           100%           0.0%       0.0%        0.1%        0.0%       0.5%         0.0%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.6%
Wakefield town Middlesex Co. MA                      273             1            273          0.6%         86.1%                                                                    100%                                                            100%           0.0%       0.0%        0.0%        0.0%       0.0%         0.6%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.6%
Millis town Norfolk Co. MA                           273             1            273          0.6%         86.6%        40%                                40%        20%                                                                           100%           0.2%       0.0%        0.0%        0.2%       0.1%         0.0%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.6%
Lynn city Essex Co. MA                                273            1             273         0.6%          87.2%                             50%                                   50%                                                             100%           0.0%       0.0%        0.3%        0.0%       0.0%         0.3%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.6%
Burlington town Middlesex Co. MA                     269             1            269          0.6%         87.8%                                                                    100%                                                            100%           0.0%       0.0%        0.0%        0.0%       0.0%         0.6%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.6%
Dover town Norfolk Co. MA                            257             1            257          0.5%         88.3%        50%                                           50%                                                                           100%           0.3%       0.0%        0.0%        0.0%       0.3%         0.0%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.5%
Revere city Suffolk Co. MA                            256            1             256         0.5%         88.8%                              85%                                   15%                                                             100%           0.0%       0.0%        0.5%        0.0%       0.0%         0.1%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.5%
Chelsea city Suffolk Co. MA                          249             1            249          0.5%         89.4%                              85%                                   15%                                                             100%           0.0%       0.0%        0.4%        0.0%       0.0%         0.1%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.5%
Reading town Middlesex Co. MA                        244             1            244          0.5%         89.9%                                                                    100%                                                            100%           0.0%       0.0%        0.0%        0.0%       0.0%         0.5%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.5%
Foxbor. town Norfolk Co. MA                          241             1             241         0.5%         90.4%                                                      100%                                                                          100%           0.0%       0.0%        0.0%        0.0%       0.5%         0.0%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.5%
Nashua city Hillsborough Co. NH                      239             1            239          0.5%         90.9%                                                                    100%                                                            100%           0.0%       0.0%        0.0%        0.0%       0.0%         0.5%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.5%
Maynard town Middlesex Co. MA                        234             1            234          0.5%         91.4%                                                                    70%           30%                                               100%           0.0%       0.0%        0.0%        0.0%       0.0%         0.3%            0.1%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.5%
Concord town Middlesex Co. MA                        212             1            212          0.4%         91.8%                                                                    80%           20%                                               100%           0.0%       0.0%        0.0%        0.0%       0.0%         0.4%            0.1%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.4%
Plymouth town Plymouth Co. MA                        211             1            211          0.4%         92.2%                                                      100%                                                                          100%           0.0%       0.0%        0.0%        0.0%       0.4%         0.0%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.4%
Tewksbury town Middlesex Co. MA                      210             1            210          0.4%         92.7%                                                                    100%                                                            100%           0.0%       0.0%        0.0%        0.0%       0.0%         0.4%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.4%
Medway town Norfolk Co. MA                           210             1            210          0.4%         93.1%        10%                                90%                                                                                      100%           0.0%       0.0%        0.0%        0.4%       0.0%         0.0%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.4%
Winchester town Middlesex Co. MA                     204             1            204          0.4%         93.5%                                                                    85%                                    15%                      100%           0.0%       0.0%        0.0%        0.0%       0.0%         0.4%            0.0%         0.0%        0.1%       0.0%          0.4%
Westbor. town Worcester Co. MA                        194            1             194         0.4%          93.9%                                         100%                                                                                      100%           0.0%       0.0%        0.0%        0.4%       0.0%         0.0%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.4%
Beverly city Essex Co. MA                             190            1             190         0.4%          94.3%                                                                   100%                                                            100%           0.0%       0.0%        0.0%        0.0%       0.0%         0.4%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.4%
Bellingham town Norfolk Co. MA                       189             1            189          0.4%         94.7%                                          100%                                                                                      100%           0.0%       0.0%        0.0%        0.4%       0.0%         0.0%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.4%
Hudson town Middlesex Co. MA                         188             1            188          0.4%         95.1%                                          100%                                                                                      100%           0.0%       0.0%        0.0%        0.4%       0.0%         0.0%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.4%
Chelmsford town Middlesex Co. MA                     186             1            186          0.4%         95.5%                                                                    100%                                                            100%           0.0%       0.0%        0.0%        0.0%       0.0%         0.4%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.4%
Acton town Middlesex Co. MA                          184             1            184          0.4%         95.9%                                                                    100%                                                            100%           0.0%       0.0%        0.0%        0.0%       0.0%         0.4%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.4%
Haverhill city Essex Co. MA                          181             1            181          0.4%         96.3%                                                                    100%                                                            100%           0.0%       0.0%        0.0%        0.0%       0.0%         0.4%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.4%
Taunton city Bristol Co. MA                           172            1             172         0.4%         96.6%                                                      100%                                                                          100%           0.0%       0.0%        0.0%        0.0%       0.4%         0.0%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.4%
Stoneham town Middlesex Co. MA                       171             1            171          0.4%         97.0%                                                                    100%                                                            100%           0.0%       0.0%        0.0%        0.0%       0.0%         0.4%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.4%
Melrose city Middlesex Co. MA                        171             1            171          0.4%         97.3%                              65%                                   35%                                                             100%           0.0%       0.0%        0.2%        0.0%       0.0%         0.1%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.4%
Providence city Providence Co. RI                    167             1            167          0.3%         97.7%                                                      100%                                                                          100%           0.0%       0.0%        0.0%        0.0%       0.3%         0.0%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.3%
North Attlebor. town Bristol Co. MA                  167             1             167         0.3%         98.0%                                                      100%                                                                          100%           0.0%       0.0%        0.0%        0.0%       0.3%         0.0%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.3%
Mansfield town Bristol Co. MA                        166             1            166          0.3%         98.4%                                                      100%                                                                          100%           0.0%       0.0%        0.0%        0.0%       0.3%         0.0%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.3%
Norfolk town Norfolk Co. MA                          163             1            163          0.3%         98.7%                                           20%        80%                                                                           100%           0.0%       0.0%        0.0%        0.1%       0.3%         0.0%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.3%
Winthrop town Suffolk Co. MA                         159             1             159         0.3%         99.0%                              100%                                                                                                  100%           0.0%       0.0%        0.3%        0.0%       0.0%         0.0%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.3%
Attleboro city Bristol Co. MA                         156            1             156         0.3%         99.4%                                                      100%                                                                          100%           0.0%       0.0%        0.0%        0.0%       0.3%         0.0%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.3%
Shrewsbury town Worcester Co. MA                     154             1            154          0.3%         99.7%                                          100%                                                                                      100%           0.0%       0.0%        0.0%        0.3%       0.0%         0.0%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.3%
Wilmington town Middlesex Co. MA                     147             1            147          0.3%         100.0%                                                                   100%                                                            100%           0.0%       0.0%        0.0%        0.0%       0.0%         0.3%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.3%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0% CHECK     0.0%       0.0%        0.0%        0.0%       0.0%         0.0%            0.0%         0.0%        0.0%       0.0%          0.0%
                                                                                48,018           1                                                                                                                                                                 11.3%       0.1%        19.1%      14.4%       25.9%        16.6%           3.5%         3.2%        3.0%       2.9%        100.0%
1 Adjustments were made for possible transit usage and for Local employment opportunities.                                                                                                                                                                           11          0           19         15          26           17              3            3           3          3            100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     10                      20         15          25           20              3            3           2          2            100
