TRAFFIC ANALYSIS
REPORT 320

Wake Memorial Park



Proposed Residential
Development



GREEN HOPE SCHOOL ROAD
NEAR HIGHCROFT DRIVE


The Town of Cary, North Carolina




PREPARED FOR:

Town of Cary
Engineering Department

PREPARED BY:

HNTB North Carolina, PC
343 East Six Forks Road
Suite 200
Raleigh, NC 27609
NCBELS License #: C-1554



November 2010
                                            Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 320
                                  Wake Memorial Park -- Proposed Residential Development


                               EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
I. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
A new residential development named Wake Memorial Park is being proposed for
construction along Green Hope School Road west of N.C. Highway 55 in Cary, NC.
Figure 1 shows the general site location of the planned development, which is located
along the north frontage of Green Hope School Road, just east of Highcroft Drive. The
proposed project is to have vehicular access via a single local street that connects to
Green Hope School Road. The proposed development is planned to be fully complete
by 2014. This report analyzes the full build-out scenario for the year 2014, the No-Build
scenario for 2014, as well as 2010 existing year traffic conditions.

The proposed site is located on a single parcel, which is currently undeveloped. Figure
2 shows the preliminary project site plan, and the location of the proposed site access
along Green Hope School Road, as well as two future roadway connections to adjacent
undeveloped land parcels. This report analyzes and presents the traffic impacts that
the proposed Wake Memorial Park site will have on the following existing and proposed
intersections in west Cary:

      Green Hope School Road and Twyla Road
      Green Hope School Road and Highcroft Drive
      Green Hope School Road and Proposed Local Street Access
      Green Hope School Road and Sears Farm Road
      Green Hope School Road and N.C. Highway 55

The impacts of the proposed site at these intersections will be evaluated during the AM
and PM peak hours of an average weekday. There are several Town of Cary-approved
developments in the study area that were studied for the potential to generate
additional background traffic by the 2014 design year. Study area field observations
indicate that only one approved development would likely add specific additional
background traffic between 2010 and 2014. Additional potential future development in
the West Cary area was accounted for in an area-wide future ambient traffic growth
factor estimated to be 5.0 percent per year along Green Hope School Road and 2.0
percent per year along N.C. 55, based on recent traffic studies completed near the
proposed project study area and a comparison of 2010 traffic count data to historic
traffic count data for other past developments in the study area. These background
traffic increases were applied to 2014 no-build and build analysis scenarios.

II. EXISTING CONDITIONS
The proposed site is currently undeveloped. The study area consists of four existing
intersections in the vicinity of the proposed site parcel. One intersection is currently
signalized at N.C. 55 and Green Hope School Road. Most of the study area is in a
transitional development stage, with a mixture of residential subdivisions of varying
density, several large parcels of open undeveloped land and several commercial

                                         ES-1
                                                Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 320
                                      Wake Memorial Park -- Proposed Residential Development

businesses along Green Hope School Road. N.C 55 is a heavily traveled arterial
serving residential and commercial development in the study area and between the
Towns of Cary, Apex and Research Triangle Park. Green Hope School Road is a
minor arterial that provides connectivity between Green Level Church Road to the west
and N.C. 55 to the east. All other remaining roadways are local access streets.

There is one roadway improvement project currently under construction to be complete
before the 2014 build out year that may affect travel conditions in the project study
area. The North Carolina Turnpike Authority is currently constructing the West Wake
Expressway that will provide a six-lane high speed tolled freeway facility just west of the
proposed site. Though its impacts are not specifically analyzed in this report (there will
be no interchange along Green Hope School Road), it is anticipated that the facility will
cause some commuter traffic to shift from N.C. 55 to the new facility.

III. PROBABLE IMPACTS OF THE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The site plan for Wake Memorial Park proposes to construct up to 62 new single family
home sites. One new local street connection to Green Hope School Road is proposed.
Two additional future roadway connections to undeveloped land parcels to the east and
west of the Wake Memorial Park site are also shown on the plan, but not analyzed for
this study. The plan also notes that the eastbound approach on Green Hope School
Road is to have one left-turn lane into the site and one through travel lane. This
laneage configuration will match existing pavement cross-sections to the west and east
of the site parcel. The site plan shows no additional improvements/changes to external
roadways.

Table ES-1 shows the estimated trip generation data for the development, based on
methodologies found in the Institute of Transportation Engineers Trip Generation
Manual, Volume 8, 2007. To be conservative, no reductions for internally captured
trips, pedestrian and bicycle trips, or transit usage was made for this study.

                                    Table ES-1
                     Weekday Vehicle Trip Generation Summary
                           Proposed Wake Memorial Park
               ITE Land Use Code 210 ­ (Single-Family Detached Homes)

  Independent      Time    Generation      % Traffic   % Traffic   TOTAL TRIPS   Total Trips
    Variable      Period     Rate             IN         OUT        IN    OUT    Generated
                   Daily      10.80          50%         50%       335    335       670

    62 homes     AM Peak       0.86          25%         75%        13     40        53

                 PM Peak       1.10          63%         37%        43     25        68




                                             ES-2
                                                         Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 320
                                           Wake Memorial Park -- Proposed Residential Development

IV. TRAFFIC OPERATIONS ANALYSIS

Existing intersections were analyzed during the AM and PM peak hours of study area
traffic patterns, using data collected by HNTB. Of the four existing study area
intersections analyzed, none currently experience deficient traffic operations in either
weekday peak hour.

The addition of ambient area-wide traffic growth and background development growth
(from the nearby Hilliard Forest residential development) by the 2014 design year
causes the overall operations at N.C. 55 and Green Hope School Road to fall below a
LOS D in the PM peak hour. The addition of site-related traffic in the 2014 design year
will marginally increase delay at all study area intersections, but will not cause any
additional intersection deficiencies. A summary of the traffic operations for each
intersection, related to vehicular delays (intersection average as a whole if signalized,
critical movement if stop-controlled) and the corresponding LOS is shown in Table ES-2
below.

                               Table ES-2 LOS and Delay Summary
                                 TAR 320 ­ Wake Memorial Park

                                            2010 Existing     2014 No-Site      2014 W/Site 2014 Mitigated
                                   Peak
Intersections
                                   Hour      LOS     Delay    LOS      Delay    LOS     Delay    LOS        Delay
Green Hope School Road and           AM        B      10.5      B       11.8      B      11.8     N/A        N/A
Twyla Road*                          PM        B      10.2      B       11.5      B      11.5     N/A        N/A

Green Hope School Road and           AM        B      10.8      B       12.4      B      12.5     N/A        N/A
Highcroft Drive*                     PM        B      10.7      B       12.1      B      12.2     N/A        N/A

Green Hope School Road and           AM        B      11.4      B       13.1      B      13.7     N/A        N/A
Sears Farm Road*                     PM        B      12.0      B       14.4      C      15.4     N/A        N/A

Green Hope School Road and           AM        C      22.3      D       41.8      D      43.0     N/A        N/A
N.C. Highway 55                      PM        C      26.0      E       62.1      E      65.5    N/A**      N/A**

Green Hope School Road and           AM       N/A     N/A      N/A      N/A       B      13.3     N/A        N/A
Proposed Site Driveway*              PM       N/A     N/A      N/A      N/A       B      13.8     N/A        N/A

* - LOS/Delay Data is for worst-case critical stop-controlled movement
** - Additional Mitigation Not Recommended as Actual Operations are Better than Synchro-predicted Results
N/A => Not Applicable, i.e. movement is non-existent or no improvements made



V. MITIGATION RELATED TO THE PROJECT

In conclusion, none of the four existing intersections experience deficient operations in
the 2010 existing scenario. In the 2014 design year No-Build Scenario, one study area
intersection (N.C. 55 and Green Hope School Road) is projected to drop below Town of
Cary LOS D thresholds for adequate traffic operations in the Base Transportation Zone.

                                                     ES-3
                                             Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 320
                                  Wake Memorial Park -- Proposed Residential Development

The addition of site generated traffic from the proposed Wake Memorial Park
development will not cause any additional intersections to drop to a deficient LOS in
either peak hour in the 2014 design year Build Scenario.

To mitigate potential future LOS deficiencies to Town APFO standards, additional
laneage would be necessary on N.C. 55 to allow additional throughput in the
southbound direction, which is currently over capacity and was analyzed as having
additional background traffic growth. However, actual conditions currently experienced
at the intersection differ from the predicted analysis results from the Synchro software
and provide a clearer picture of actual operations. The basis for this assumption is
described in the following bullet points:

      In the PM peak hour existing and future scenarios, only one vehicle in the PM
      peak hour is expected to use the westbound Green Hope School Road
      approach. Even if this changes in the future, the traffic volumes at this approach
      are almost negligible.

      Westbound traffic at the intersection utilizes a "split" signal phase, meaning this
      approach receives 14 seconds of signal time per 160 second cycle length for all
      other intersection movements. In Synchro, this phase is factored into delay
      results for all approaches ­ whether or not it ever actually is activated.

      With only one vehicle per hour, this phase would only be activated one out of 22
      signal cycles during that peak hour, meaning that it would be skipped the
      remaining 21 cycles. The 14 seconds of skipped time for this westbound
      approach would typically be applied to the "coordinated" signal phase (the N.C.
      55 northbound and southbound movements).

      Thus, if the signal is reanalyzed in Synchro ­ with the assumption that the 14
      seconds of westbound approach signal time is transferred to N.C. 55 through
      movements, the resulting delay drops by about 25 seconds and the LOS
      improves from LOS E to LOS D, thus requiring no mitigation to achieve an
      adequate LOS.

It is also important to note that the N.C. 55 corridor operates as a coordinated system of
signalized intersections designed to optimally progress traffic northbound and
southbound along the corridor. The Synchro signal analysis software accounts for the
benefits of this signal progression if several intersections are coded into the network,
with appropriate signal timings and offsets that enhance this desired progression.
Since the TAR 320 study area network only analyzed the single signal at N.C. 55 and
Green Hope School Road, the beneficial effects of signal progression are lost in the
analysis. Other recent TAR studies (such as TAR 290 ­ Cooke Property) analyzed
upstream signals along N.C. 55, and with similar future predicted traffic volumes,
concluded that the N.C. 55/Green Hope School Road intersection would operate at a
LOS C in the design year PM peak hour for that study.


                                          ES-4
                                               Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 320
                                    Wake Memorial Park -- Proposed Residential Development

The westbound approach could physically be removed from the traffic signal
operations, but making it a full movement stop-controlled approach or even restricted
exiting traffic to right-turns out only would be unconventional and not recommended.
Moving the existing access point from the intersection either upstream or downstream
may be possible, but this may require additional median breaks for safe and efficient u-
turns and is beyond the scope of this analysis.

Pertinent to the discussion of existing and future operations at this intersection and
need for mitigation is the construction of the Western Wake Expressway ­ to be open
to traffic by late 2012. This project was not specifically analyzed in this report, due to
the difficulty in accurately assessing the traffic shifts that the new toll facility will cause
for N.C. 55 local and commuter traffic. Based on future 2030 and 2035 traffic forecasts
for the Western Wake facility and for N.C. 55, it is apparent that traffic volume growth
on N.C. 55 will slow from recent levels (even if N.C. 55 has additional capacity as a
continuous 6 lane cross-section), meaning that some traffic is predicted to shift from
N.C. 55 to Western Wake (Western Wake Parkway Traffic Forecast, 2007, MAB ). The
implications of this for the project study area is that by 2014, traffic volumes on N.C. 55
may not reach the growth levels projected in this analysis, and the actual intersection
operations reported for the N.C. 55/Green Hope School Road intersection may be
better than reported.




                                            ES-5
                                                                    Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 320
                                                 Wake Memorial Park -- Proposed Residential Development


                                                  Table of Contents

APPENDIX LIST/LIST OF FIGURES ............................................................................... ii

LIST OF TABLES ............................................................................................................. ii

I. Existing Conditions................................................................................................... 1

         A. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 1

         B. Project Description ........................................................................................... 1

         C. Geometrics and Traffic Control ........................................................................ 2

         D. Existing Volumes and Other Potential Impacts ................................................ 3

II. Probable Impacts of the Project ............................................................................. 4

III. Traffic Impacts .......................................................................................................... 4

         A. Trip Generation ................................................................................................ 4

         B. Background Traffic ........................................................................................... 5

         C. Trip Distribution and Assignment ..................................................................... 7


IV. Impact Analysis ........................................................................................................ 7

         A. Capacity Analysis Methodology ....................................................................... 7

         B. Capacity Analysis Results For Study Area Intersections ............................... 11

V. Summary and Recommendations ........................................................................ 13




                                                                i
                                                           Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 320
                                             Wake Memorial Park -- Proposed Residential Development


APPENDICES

A.   Figures
B.   Traffic Count Data
C.   SYNCHRO Signalized Analysis Output
D.   Highway Capacity Software Analysis Output

List of Figures

Figure
1) Site Location Map
2) Wake Memorial Park Preliminary Site Plan
3) 2010 Existing Laneage
4) 2010 Existing Peak Hour Traffic Volumes
5) 2014 Ambient Traffic Growth Traffic Volumes
6) 2014 Potential Background Traffic Volumes
7) 2014 Traffic Volumes Without Site
8) 2014 Site Traffic Distribution Percentages
9) 2014 Site Traffic Assignment
10) 2014 Traffic Volumes With Site

List of Tables

Table                                                                                                Page
1) Existing Study Area Roadways ......................................................................2
2) Traffic Count Information ...............................................................................3
3) Weekday Vehicle Trip Generation Summary .................................................5
4) Background Development Generator Status .................................................6
5) Hilliard Forest Background Trip Generation Summary...................................6
6) Level of Service (LOS) Characteristics ..........................................................8
7A) Level of Service for Study Area Intersections ..............................................10
7B) Delay Results for Study Area Intersections .................................................11
8) Comparison of Synchro-Calculated 2014 PM Peak Hour Results ...............13




                                                          ii
                                             Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 320
                                  Wake Memorial Park -- Proposed Residential Development


I. EXISTING CONDITIONS

A. Introduction

A new residential development named Wake Memorial Park is being proposed for
construction along Green Hope School Road west of N.C. Highway 55 in Cary, NC.
Figure 1 shows the general site location of the planned development, which is located
along the north frontage of Green Hope School Road, just east of Highcroft Drive. The
proposed project is to have vehicular access via a single local street that connects to
Green Hope School Road. The proposed development is planned to be fully complete
by 2014. This report analyzes the full build-out scenario for the year 2014, the No-Build
scenario for 2014, as well as 2010 existing year traffic conditions.

The proposed site is located on a single parcel, which is currently undeveloped. Figure
2 shows the preliminary project site plan, and the location of the proposed site access
along Green Hope School Road, as well as two future roadway connections to adjacent
undeveloped land parcels.

B. Project Description

This report analyzes and presents the traffic impacts that the proposed Wake Memorial
Park subdivision will have on the following existing and proposed intersections in west
Cary:

      Green Hope School Road and Twyla Road
      Green Hope School Road and Highcroft Drive
      Green Hope School Road and Proposed Local Street Access
      Green Hope School Road and Sears Farm Road
      Green Hope School Road and N.C. Highway 55

The impacts of the proposed site at these intersections will be evaluated during the AM
and PM peak hours of an average weekday. The following analysis is based on
background traffic for the existing year, 2010, the design year of 2014, and the
estimated site-generated traffic produced by the Wake Memorial Park development,
which is to include a maximum of 62 single-family home sites.

There are several Town of Cary-approved developments in the study area that were
investigated for potential additional background traffic generation. These developments
are either currently under construction or planned to be partially or fully complete by the
2014 design year. Additional background traffic from these developments was studied
for inclusion, as appropriate, for this analysis in the 2014 No-Build and Build scenarios.




                                            1
                                                        Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 320
                                          Wake Memorial Park -- Proposed Residential Development


C. Geometrics and Traffic Control

Existing Roadways

The TAR 320 project study area features two major arterial roadways serving areas
throughout the Town of Cary and points beyond, as well as a number of collector and
local access streets. Table 1, below, summarizes pertinent information on the study
area roadway facilities.

                            Table 1 ­ Existing Study Area Roadways




                                                                                                        On-Street
                                                                                             Sidewalk


                                                                                                         Parking
                                                                                     Speed
                                                                             AADT


                                                                                     Limit
                                                                             2007
Road                               Functional               Study Area
Name                                 Class*                Cross-Section

N.C. Highway 55                  Major Arterial       4 lane divided        28,000   50      S            N
Green Hope School Road           Major Arterial       2 lane undivided       N/A     35      S            N
                                                      with auxiliary turn
                                                      lanes
Highcroft Drive                  Collector            2 lane undivided       N/A     25      Y            Y
Sears Farm Road                  Local                2 lane undivided       N/A     25      Y            Y
Twyla Road                       Local                                                       N            Y
* - As defined in the Town of Cary 2010 Comprehensive Transportation Plan
S ­ Some Sidewalk Present


Intersections

Currently, one of the four existing study area intersections is signalized.                  Figure 3
shows the existing laneage and traffic control for all existing intersections.

The intersection of N.C. 55 and Green Hope School Road is currently signalized and is
operating with six signal phases. The northbound approach features an exclusive left-
turn lane, two through travel lanes, and a short flared right-turn deceleration lane. The
southbound approach features an exclusive left-turn lane, two through lanes, and a
right-turn deceleration lane. The eastbound approach on Green Hope School Road
has an exclusive left-turn lane and a shared left-turn/through/right-turn lane. The
westbound approach has a shared left-turn/through/right-turn lane. The eastbound and
westbound approaches features split signal phasing. No on-street parking or sidewalks
are present in the intersection vicinity.

The remaining intersections are currently stop-controlled, with the lower volume street
approaches experiencing the stop-controlled condition (see Figure 3 for details).




                                                       2
                                                      Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 320
                                         Wake Memorial Park -- Proposed Residential Development


D. Existing Traffic Volumes and Other Potential Impacts

Figure 4 shows the existing AM and PM peak hour traffic volumes for the study area
intersections. The counts used to determine these volumes were conducted by HNTB
North Carolina, P.C. for the following intersections during the respective times shown in
Table 2. Traffic count data files can be found in Appendix B of this report.

                               Table 2 - Traffic Count Information

                                                          Period   Count
 Traffic Count Location                                                         Peak Hour
                                                         Counted    Date
                                                         AM Peak               8:15 ­ 9:15 AM
 Green Hope School Road and Twyla Road                             7/15/10
                                                         PM Peak              5:30 ­ 6:30 PM**
                                                         AM Peak               8:00 ­ 9:00 AM
 Green Hope School Road and Highcroft Drive                        7/20/10
                                                         PM Peak              4:30 ­ 5:30 PM**
                                                         AM Peak               8:00 ­ 9:00 AM
 Green Hope School Road and Sears Farm Road                        7/22/10
                                                         PM Peak               5:00 ­ 6:00 PM
                                                         AM Peak               7:45 ­ 8:45 AM
 Green Hope School Road and N.C. 55                                7/21/10
                                                         PM Peak               5:00 ­ 6:00 PM
** - Actual Peak Hour Volumes Analyzed From 5:00-6:00 PM


After inspection of the peak hour traffic volumes, it was apparent that there was a large
traffic volume discrepancy along westbound Green Hope School Road in the PM peak
caused by the fact that the highest peak hour for the intersection varied markedly, even
though the intersections are closely spaced. The potential sources for the data
variance are that commuter traffic on N.C. 55 will divert, depending on daily traffic
congestion, along east-west facilities that intersect N.C 55 to avoid certain areas. In
addition, potential afternoon/evening events at the USA Baseball Complex/Thomas
Brooks Park to the west of the study may also skew PM peak traffic flows on Green
Hope School Road, which experiences a high factor of peak activity compared to off-
peak traffic volume. To make a more consistent base-line to establish existing PM
peak traffic levels, intersection volumes for the 5:00 ­ 6:00 PM hour were used for the
corridor, and further balancing of volumes was done between the closely spaced
intersections, as necessary.

Transit Impacts. Currently, Triangle Transit Authority (TTA) Route 311 operates within
the study area. The daily 311 route runs along N.C. 55, serving both Apex and
Research Triangle Park. Route 311 buses have 30 minute headways in each direction
during the AM and PM peak periods. Because of the large headways between buses
(two/three total buses by direction in the AM peak hour and two/three buses in the PM
peak hour) and the small percentage of ridership (in terms of total trips made in the
study area), it is anticipated that this route will have an insignificant effect on travel
behavior of site traffic in the study area.

The Town of Cary offers a demand-responsive bus service, C-Tran, which is available
to senior citizens and those with mobility limitations. It is a door-to-door service that is



                                                     3
                                               Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 320
                                    Wake Memorial Park -- Proposed Residential Development

available for use by reservation only. Though this service is provided throughout most
of the study area, it is anticipated that it will have an insignificant effect on travel
behavior of site traffic in the study area. C-Tran also offers fixed route bus service on
six routes, but none of these routes operate within one mile of the study area.
Therefore, no adjustment has been made to projected site traffic volumes, based on C-
Tran services.

Planned Roadway Improvement Impacts. There is one roadway improvement
project in the study area actively planned to be complete before the 2014 build-out
year. The North Carolina Turnpike Authority (NCTA) currently is constructing the
Western Wake Expressway portion of the Triangle Expressway (Tri-Ex). This facility is
located to the west of the proposed site and is a six-lane freeway facility that will
operate as a toll road. Though the facility is not specifically analyzed in this study, it will
likely affect travel patterns for commuter traffic in the West Cary area. Traffic volumes
on the paralleling N.C. 55 facility are likely to be impacted, as some current traffic will
likely shift from N.C. 55 to the Tri-Ex facility. No specific analysis of this shift was made
for this study.


II. PROBABLE IMPACTS OF THE PROJECT

The land upon which the site will be constructed is currently an undeveloped
field/partially forested tract. A preliminary site plan of the development can be found in
Figure 2. The site plan proposes a single external access local street located along
Green Hope School Road. Two external future local street connections are also shown
on the plan that would connect to adjacent undeveloped land parcels to the east and
west of the site. No analysis of these future connections was done for this study.
There is notation on the plan that an eastbound left-turn lane and through travel lane is
to be provided along Green Hope School Road at the intersection with the proposed
local access street.       No additional improvements/changes to external roadways are
shown on the site plan.

The proposed Wake Memorial Park development will be built to a maximum of 62 home
sites for the purposes of this traffic study. Parking for the home sites will be provided in
individual driveways or along local access streets.


III. TRAFFIC IMPACTS

A. Trip Generation

The projected trips generated by the proposed development were based on information
from the ITE Trip Generation Manual (Institute of Transportation Engineers, 8th Edition,
2007). The number of single family residences was used as the basis for estimating
trips. Trip generation results use the ITE equation-based methodology for number of



                                              4
                                                         Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 320
                                             Wake Memorial Park -- Proposed Residential Development

single family units to calculate the number of trips, per recommendations from the
NCDOT Congestion Management Unit.

Table 3, below, shows the estimated number of trips generated by the Wake Memorial
Park development during the AM and PM peak hours of the adjacent streets on a
typical weekday. No attempt was made to reduce the number of estimated site trips by
a transit factor, due to the small amount of potential ridership in relation to total trips in
the study area and large TTA and C-Tran bus headways. Reductions in trip-making
due to pass-by type trips were not made for this study, since this land use type is not
typically associated with pass-by trip-making. No reductions in generated trips were
considered for internal purposes or for possible future connections with adjacent
undeveloped land parcels. A truck percentage of two percent was used for all site-
generated traffic.

Table 3 shows that, when fully developed, the Wake Memorial Park development will
generate approximately 670 daily trips, 53 new site trips in the AM peak hour and 68
new site trips in the PM peak hour.

                                        Table 3
                       Weekday Vehicle Trip Generation Summary
                             Proposed Wake Memorial Park
                 ITE Land Use Code 210 ­ (Single-Family Detached Homes)

   Independent        Time        Generation      % Traffic    % Traffic     TOTAL TRIPS          Total Trips
     Variable        Period         Rate             IN          OUT           IN       OUT       Generated
                       Daily         10.80           50%          50%         335        335          670

     62 homes        AM Peak          0.86           25%          75%          13        40            53

                     PM Peak          1.10           63%          37%          43        25            68
   * -- Generation Rate Calculated from Natural Log Equations and will vary based on independent variable data


B. Background Traffic

Background traffic growth in the project study is assumed to be from two sources ­
ambient area-wide traffic growth and from specific background traffic generators. Per
information from previous traffic impact studies, NCDOT Traffic Survey Unit data, and
accounting for potential growth from numerous developments in the West Cary area
that are under construction, an ambient growth rate of five percent per year was applied
to Green Hope School Road and all local residential streets. A two percent per year
factor was applied to 2010 existing peak hour traffic volumes for through traffic
movements on N.C. 55 through the Green Hope School Road intersection. Figure 5
displays 2014 ambient growth estimates for study area intersections.

Potential specific site-generated background traffic for the 2014 design year was
investigated for the following partially constructed or planned developments (per




                                                       5
                                                        Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 320
                                             Wake Memorial Park -- Proposed Residential Development

information from the Town of Cary) in Table 4. Table 4 indicates the status of each
development as compiled from field observation of each site.

                   Table 4. Background Development Generator Status

Development Name                                  TAR      Status                             Include as
                                                    #                                         Background?
Pittard Sears Age-Restr.Residential                314     Beginning Construction             No (ambient)
Pharmacy at OKC and GLD                            293     No Construction                    No (ambient)
Evans Farm Update                                 167A     No Construction                    No (ambient)
OKC and NC 55 Multifamily                          284     No Construction                    No (ambient)
Alston Ridge Elementary School                     258     Complete                           No
Alston Residential                                 197     No Construction                    No (ambient)
Parkside Commons                                   225     Beginning Construction             No (ambient)
McCrimmon & NC 55 Retail                           253     No Construction                    No (ambient)
Panther Creek High School                         154A     Complete                           No
Camden Townhomes at Cary Park                      N/A     Built-Out                          No
NC 55 at CFS Strip Center                          290     No Construction                    No (ambient)
Wellesley Professional Park                        269     Built-Out                          No
Wellesley Prof. Park Amendment                    269A     Built-Out                          No
Hilliard Forest (160 SF homes)                     N/A     Approximately 60                   Yes
                                                           homes complete

The specific background traffic assignment generated by the Hilliard Forest
development (100 additional homes) is shown in Figure 6. Trip generation for this
development traffic, trip distribution, and traffic assignment is assumed to be similar to
methods described for site-related traffic from the Wake Memorial Development (see
Section C, below). Trip generation details for the Hilliard Forest development is shown
in Table 5, below. Based on field observation of activity in the study area, none of the
developments listed above are either currently under construction and/or would be built-
out to any significant degree by the 2014 design year to consider their site-related traffic
to be included beyond the ambient growth assumptions previously described.

                                          Table 5
                       Weekday Vehicle Trip Generation Summary
                         Hilliard Forest (100 Remaining Homes)
                 ITE Land Use Code 210 ­ (Single-Family Detached Homes)

  Independent         Time       Generation       % Traffic    % Traffic     TOTAL TRIPS          Total Trips
    Variable         Period        Rate*             IN          OUT           IN       OUT       Generated
                       Daily         10.40           50%          50%         520       520          1040

    100 homes        AM Peak          0.80           25%          75%          20        60            80

                     PM Peak          1.05           63%          37%          66        39           105
 * -- Generation Rate Calculated from Natural Log Equations and will vary based on independent variable data




                                                       6
                                            Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 320
                                  Wake Memorial Park -- Proposed Residential Development


Figure 7 shows the 2014 Without Site Scenario traffic volumes that are a summation of
the 2014 ambient growth volumes and the 2014 specific background generator traffic
volumes.

C. Trip Distribution and Assignment

Existing daily and peak hour traffic patterns were used to determine the directional
traffic characteristics of the additional background and site-generated traffic. Daily
traffic volume information was taken from recent Average Annual Daily Traffic (AADT)
data from the NCDOT Traffic Survey Unit. Existing average peak hour data was also
used to determine traffic flow pattern characteristics and to base trip distribution
percentages on these patterns.

Site-related traffic was assumed to use the higher volume arterial study area roadways
(N.C. 55 and Green Hope School Road) to enter/exit the study area. Some site-related
traffic could be generated by and use local access and collector streets within the study
area, but this amount of trips was considered negligible for the purposes of this
analysis. Traffic was assumed to access the site via the most direct, convenient path.

Figure 8 shows the trip distribution percentage breakout used for the 2014 site traffic.
Figure 9 shows the corresponding site traffic volume assignments, based on the trip
generation rates, for the 2014 final build-out analysis.


IV. IMPACT ANALYSIS

A. Capacity Analysis Methodology

Evaluation of traffic operations on suburban arterials is most effective through the
determination of level of service (LOS) criteria. The concept of level of service
correlates qualitative aspects of traffic flow to quantitative terms. This enables
transportation professionals to take the qualitative issues, such as congestion and
substandard geometrics, and translate them into measurable quantities, such as
operating speeds and vehicular delays. The 2000 Highway Capacity Manual (HCM
2000) characterizes level of service by letter designations A through F. Level of service
A represents ideal low-volume traffic operations, and level of service F represents over-
saturated high-volume traffic operations. Level of service is measured differently for
various highway facilities, but in general, level of service letter designations are
described by Table 6 on the following page.




                                           7
                                            Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 320
                                 Wake Memorial Park -- Proposed Residential Development

                                       Table 6
                       Level of Service (LOS) Characteristics

 Level of Service Description                      Per Vehicle Delay   Per Vehicle Delay
                                                       at Signal         at Stop Sign
LOS A
 Free flow
                                                     < 10.0 sec          < 10.0 sec
 Freedom to select desired speed and to
  maneuver is extremely high
 General level of comfort and convenience for
  motorists is excellent
LOS B
 Stable flow
                                                   10.0 ­ 20.0 sec     10.0 ­ 15.0 sec
 Other vehicles in the traffic stream become
  noticeable
 Reduction in freedom to maneuver from LOS A
LOS C
 Stable flow
                                                   20.0 ­ 35.0 sec     15.0 ­ 25.0 sec
 Maneuverability and operating speed are
  significantly affected by other vehicles
 General level of comfort and convenience
  declines noticeably
LOS D
 High density but stable flow
                                                   35.0 ­ 55.0 sec     25.0 ­ 35.0 sec
 Speed and freedom to maneuver are severely
  restricted
 General level of comfort / convenience is poor
 Small increases in traffic will generally cause
  operational problems
LOS E
 Unstable flow
                                                   55.0 ­ 80.0 sec     35.0 ­ 50.0 sec
 Speed reduced to lower but relatively uniform
  value
 Volumes at or near capacity level
 Comfort and convenience are extremely poor
 Small flow increases or minor traffic stream
  disturbances will cause breakdowns
LOS F
 Forced or breakdown flow
                                                     > 80.0 sec          > 50.0 sec
 Volumes exceed roadway capacity
 Formation of unstable queues
 Stoppages for long periods of time because of
  traffic congestion

The minimum acceptable level of service established for this project is LOS D based on
average peak hour volumes, or no increase in delay for intersections operating below
the LOS D threshold without the inclusion of site traffic during morning and afternoon
peak hours. The following four conditions were evaluated for this analysis:



                                           8
                                                Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 320
                                    Wake Memorial Park -- Proposed Residential Development


Condition 1 - 2010 Existing Year Traffic
Condition 2 - 2014 Design Year Traffic without Site Traffic
Condition 3 - 2014 Design Year Traffic with Site Traffic
Condition 4 - 2014 Design Year Traffic with Site Traffic and Improvements
              (For all intersections/critical intersection movements operating worse
            than a LOS D, where applicable)

Existing signal plans and coordinated signal timing information for the traffic signals in
the study area were obtained from NCDOT Division 5 staff. Information from the plans
related to signal timing minimums and phasing sequences were used for all conditions
in this analysis.

The results of this analysis are based on the LOS and delay procedures presented in
the HCM 2000. To obtain optimized signal timings for the actuated signals, the timing
optimization software Synchro Professional Version 7.0 was used to evaluate an
optimal cycle length for the given existing timing and phasing parameters and existing
volumes. The methodology of evaluating each condition is presented below:

   Condition 1 ­ Use information from the NCDOT for the cycle length, splits, and offsets of
   individual signalized intersections and report LOS and delay values from Synchro 7.0 (using
   percentile delay formulas).

   Conditions 2 & 3 ­ Use existing signal timing data from Condition 1. If an intersection
   operates acceptably with the addition of background traffic growth and/or site traffic to the
   existing timing data, the same cycle lengths, splits and offsets were used for both
   Conditions 2 and 3 for that intersection. If an intersection falls below an overall LOS D,
   mitigation strategies related to improving signal operations were tested in Condition 4.

   Condition 4 ­ Reoptimize signal operations for beneficial improvements related to signal
   cycle lengths, splits and/or offsets. Both the cycle lengths and offsets will be optimized to
   ensure best progression schemes for through traffic, in this case. Also, evaluate the
   potential for different signal phasing schemes (left-turn lag phases, for example) Retain
   existing split minimums and any pedestrian timing values. Recommendations, if warranted,
   will be made to obtain at least LOS D for the intersection as a whole.

Improvements to deficient intersections in Conditions 2 and 3 were made by first
attempting to create an optimally progressed signal system with acceptable
adjustments to signal phasing, if feasible. If that did not produce satisfactory results for
all intersections, geometric improvements to improve intersection capacity were
considered for the deficient intersections.

Unsignalized intersections were analyzed in HCS+, using HCM delay and LOS
formulas. Their results were evaluated on a per-movement basis, since HCM methods
do not produce overall intersection level of service for unsignalized intersections. Thus,
intersections with deficient movements in Condition 3 may need to have the


                                              9
                                                        Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 320
                                          Wake Memorial Park -- Proposed Residential Development

movements evaluated for improvements in Condition 4. This methodology differs from
signalized intersections, where one or more movements at an intersection may be
deficient in Condition 3, but as long as the overall intersection level of service does not
fall below LOS D, no intersection improvements are deemed necessary. If HCM
analyses indicate abnormally large per-vehicle delay values for relatively low approach
volumes, the intersection under study was input into a traffic microsimulation model to
produce a comparable peak hour evaluation. If the simulation model delay results
indicated wide discrepancies in the per-vehicle delay for the affected movements, the
simulation values will be used instead of the HCM formula results in determining the
need for additional mitigation due to site traffic impact.

Figure 7 shows the estimated traffic volumes for Condition 2 (2014 traffic without site).
Figures 9 and 9A show estimated traffic volumes for Condition 3 (2014 traffic with site).
Condition 1 (existing traffic) was previously shown by Figure 4. Appendix C contains
the Synchro output for all four conditions (where applicable), for all signalized
intersections under study. Appendix D contains the HCS output for all unsignalized
intersections under study. Tables 7A and 7B show the results of these analyses. A
discussion of each intersection and its impacts follows the tables.

            Table 7A - Level of Service Results for Study Area Intersections

                                              Condition 1      Condition 2     Condition 3    Condition 4
Intersection                                 Existing 2010     2014 No Site    2014 W/Site   2014 Mitigated
                                              AM      PM        AM     PM      AM     PM      AM      PM
Green Hope School Rd & Twyla Road             N/A      N/A      N/A      N/A   N/A    N/A    N/A      N/A

EB LTTH                                        A        A        A        A     A      A
SB LTRT                                        A        B        B        B     B      B
Green Hope School Rd & Highcroft Dr           N/A      N/A      N/A      N/A   N/A    N/A    N/A      N/A

WB LT                                          A        A        A        A     A      A
NB LTRT                                        B        B        B        B     B      B
Green Hope School Rd & Sears Farm Rd          N/A      N/A      N/A      N/A   N/A    N/A    N/A      N/A

WB LTTH                                        A        A        A        A     A     A
NB LT                                          B        B        B        B     B     C
NB RT                                          A        A        B        A     B     A
Green Hope School Rd & N.C. 55                 C        C        D        E     D     E      N/A      N/A

EB LT                                          F        F        E        F     E      E
EB LTR                                         F        F        E        F     E      F
WB LTR                                         E        E        E        E     E      E
NB LT                                          A        E        A        E     A      F
NB TH                                          B        A        D        A     D      A
NB RT                                          A        A        A        A     A      A
SB LT/U-TURN                                   A        A        A        A     A      A
SB TH                                          B        C        B        F     B      F
SB RT                                          A        A        A        A     A      A
Green Hope School Rd & Site Driveway          N/A      N/A      N/A      N/A   N/A    N/A    N/A      N/A

EB LT                                                                           A      A
SB LTRT                                                                         B      B
N/A => Not Applicable, i.e. movement is non-existent or no improvements made




                                                      10
                                                        Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 320
                                          Wake Memorial Park -- Proposed Residential Development


            Table 7B - Delay Results for Study Area Intersections (Sec/Veh)

                                              Condition 1      Condition 2     Condition 3    Condition 4
Intersection                                 Existing 2010     2014 No Site    2014 W/Site   2014 Mitigated
                                              AM      PM        AM     PM       AM     PM     AM       PM
Green Hope School Rd & Twyla Road             N/A      N/A      N/A      N/A   N/A    N/A     N/A     N/A

EB LTTH                                        7.7      7.5      7.9     7.7    7.9    7.7
SB LTRT                                       10.5     10.2     11.8    11.5   11.8   11.5
Green Hope School Rd & Highcroft Dr           N/A      N/A      N/A     N/A    N/A    N/A     N/A     N/A

WB LT                                          7.8      7.9      8.1     8.2    8.1    8.2
NB LTRT                                       10.8     10.7     12.4    12.1   12.5   12.2
Green Hope School Rd & Sears Farm Rd          N/A      N/A      N/A     N/A    N/A    N/A     N/A     N/A

WB LTTH                                        7.8      7.7      8.1     7.9    8.2    7.9
NB LT                                         11.4     12.0     13.1    14.4   13.7   15.4
NB RT                                         10.0      9.1     11.0     9.5   11.4    9.6
Green Hope School Rd & N.C. 55                22.3     26.0     41.8    62.1   43.0   65.5    N/A     N/A

EB LT                                         94.9     97.4     73.9    85.7   78.2   79.2
EB LTR                                        96.0     99.3     74.5    85.7   79.4   80.9
WB LTR                                        73.0     72.0     73.0    72.0   73.0   72.0
NB LT                                          5.5     61.3      8.9    64.3    9.1   88.3
NB TH                                         18.6      6.9     49.8     8.9   50.5    9.8
NB RT                                          8.0      0.0      9.0     0.0    9.0    0.0
SB LT/U-TURN                                   6.1      3.8      7.5     4.8    7.5    5.0
SB TH                                         10.1     28.0     15.1    87.5   15.2   92.5
SB RT                                          1.7      2.1      1.9     3.0    1.9    2.8
Green Hope School Rd & Site Driveway          N/A      N/A      N/A     N/A    N/A    N/A     N/A     N/A

EB LT                                                                           7.9    8.3
SB LTRT                                                                        13.3   13.8
N/A => Not Applicable, i.e. movement is non-existent or no improvements made



B. Capacity Analysis Results for Study Area Intersections

    i.) Condition 1 ­ Existing 2010
    As shown in Tables 7A and 7B, all intersections in the project study area currently
    operate acceptably in the existing 2010 AM and PM peak hour capacity analyses.
    Several movements are over capacity at the N.C. 55/Green Hope School Road
    intersection, but overall vehicular delay for the intersection is acceptable for both
    peak hours.

    ii.) Condition 2 ­ 2014 Without Site Traffic
    The addition of ambient area-wide traffic growth estimates along with specific
    background development traffic from the Hilliard Forest development will increase
    delays at all intersections in 2014, but only one intersection (N.C. 55 and Green
    Hope School Road) would require mitigation to meet Town of Cary APFO thresholds
    for this study, primarily due to excessively heavy southbound PM through traffic
    estimates for N.C. 55. No additional intersections fall below the LOS D thresholds.



                                                      11
                                         Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 320
                              Wake Memorial Park -- Proposed Residential Development

iii.) Condition 3 ­ 2014 With Site Traffic
The addition of traffic generated by the Wake Memorial Park project will marginally
increase delays for most study area intersections. No new operational deficiencies
are expected. Optimized signal timing and parameters were kept the same from
Condition 2 to provide the most conservative and comparable estimate of additional
delays caused by site-related traffic at the signalized N.C. 55/Green Hope School
Road intersection.

iv.) Condition 4 ­ 2014 Mitigated With Site Traffic
The intersection of N.C. 55 and Green Hope School Road has Synchro-calculated
overall PM peak hour deficient operations in the 2014 design year for the No-Build
and Build Scenarios. To address the operational deficiencies, signal timing could be
modified, but with southbound traffic demand on N.C. 55 projected to be well over
capacity, little benefits to overall LOS and delay would occur. Thus, additional
capacity for this movement by provision of an additional through traffic lane could
mitigate deficient operations. However, by examining actual traffic signal operations
at the intersection, it was concluded that the signal would operate differently from
predicted results due to extremely light traffic volumes utilizing the westbound
intersection approach. If it is assumed that this approach rarely utilizes its green
phase, and that phase time is applied to the main street phase (N.C. 55 through
traffic), predicted results are markedly different.

Table 8, on the following page, indicates LOS and delay data from this intersection
using the two different methods of analyzing the intersection ­ if the westbound
phase was never activated for the majority of peak hour signal cycles versus the
standard coding method of this phase in the Synchro software. Detailed data is
found in Appendix C. Based on Table 6, the fact that the westbound phase rarely
is activated and that this signal time will actually be applied to the N.C. 55 phase,
indicates that the intersection operates acceptably and no mitigation is necessary to
preserve adequate traffic operation.




                                       12
                                                   Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 320
                                       Wake Memorial Park -- Proposed Residential Development


        Table 8 ­ Comparison of Synchro-Calculated PM Peak Hour Results
                   N.C. 55/Green Hope School Road Intersection

                         Intersection             Approach                 Movement
Intersection Scenario   LOS     Delay     Direction LOS Delay        Movement   LOS      Delay
                                                                    EB LT          E      79.2
                                             EB        F     80.0
                                                                    EB LTR         F      80.9
                                             WB        E     72.0   WB LTR         E      72.0
                                                                    NB LT          F      88.3
Standard Analysis
                         E      65.5         NB        C     20.8   NB TH          A       9.8
with All Phases
                                                                    NB RT          A       0.0
                                                                    SB LT/U-TURN   A       5.0
                                             SB        F     82.8   SB TH          F      92.5
                                                                    SB RT          A       2.8
                                                                    EB LT          F     155.6
                                             EB        F    158.6
                                                                    EB LTR         F     161.9
Actual Operation                                                    NB LT          F     150.7
with no                                      NB        C     25.9   NB TH          A       5.7
                         D      40.0
Westbound Phase                                                     NB RT          A       0.0
                                                                    SB LT/U-TURN   A       2.4
                                             SB        C     33.5   SB TH          D      37.4
                                                                    SB RT          A       1.9



V. SUMMARY AND RECOMMENDATIONS

In conclusion, none of the four existing intersections experiences deficient operations in
the 2010 existing scenario. In the 2014 design year No-Build Scenario, one study area
intersection (N.C. 55 and Green Hope School Road) is projected to drop below Town of
Cary LOS D thresholds for adequate traffic operations in the Base Transportation Zone.
The addition of site generated traffic from the proposed Wake Memorial Park
development will not cause any additional intersections to drop to a deficient LOS in
either peak hour in the 2014 design year Build Scenario.

To mitigate potential future LOS deficiencies to Town APFO standards, additional
laneage would be necessary on N.C. 55 to allow additional throughput in the
southbound direction, which is currently over capacity and was analyzed as having
additional background traffic growth. However, actual conditions currently experienced
at the intersection differ from the predicted analysis results from the Synchro software
and provide a clearer picture of actual operations. The basis for this assumption is
described in the following bullet points:

       In the PM peak existing and future scenarios, only one vehicle in the PM peak
       hour is expected to use the westbound Green Hope School Road approach.
       Even if this changes in the future, the traffic volumes at this approach are almost
       negligible.




                                                  13
                                               Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 320
                                    Wake Memorial Park -- Proposed Residential Development

       The westbound traffic at the intersection utilizes a "split" signal phase, meaning
       this approach receives 14 seconds of signal time per 160 second cycle length for
       all other intersection movements. In Synchro, this phase is factored into delay
       results for all approaches ­ whether or not it ever actually is activated.

       With only one vehicle per hour, this phase would only be activated one out of 22
       signal cycles during that peak hour, meaning that it would be skipped the
       remaining 21 cycles. The 14 seconds of skipped time for this westbound
       approach would typically be applied to the "coordinated" signal phase (the N.C.
       55 northbound and southbound movements).

       Thus, if the signal is reanalyzed in Synchro ­ with the assumption that the 14
       seconds of westbound approach signal time is transferred to N.C. 55 through
       movements, the resulting delay drops by about 25 seconds and the LOS
       improves from LOS E to LOS D, thus requiring no mitigation to achieve an
       adequate LOS.

It is also important to note that the N.C. 55 corridor operates as a coordinated system of
signalized intersections designed to optimally progress traffic northbound and
southbound along the corridor. The Synchro signal analysis software accounts for the
benefits of this signal progression if several intersections are coded into the network,
with appropriate signal timings and offsets that enhance this desired progression.
Since the TAR 320 study area network only analyzed the single signal at N.C. 55 and
Green Hope School Road, the beneficial effects of signal progression are lost in the
analysis. Other recent TAR studies (such as TAR 290 ­ Cooke Property) analyzed
upstream signals along N.C. 55, and with similar future predicted traffic volumes,
concluded that the N.C. 55/Green Hope School Road intersection would operate at a
LOS C in the design year PM peak hour for that study.

The westbound approach could physically be removed from the traffic signal
operations, but making it a full movement stop-controlled approach or even restricted
exiting traffic to right-turns out only would be unconventional and not recommended.
Moving the existing access point from the intersection either upstream or downstream
may be possible, but this may require additional median breaks for safe and efficient u-
turns and is beyond the scope of this analysis.

Pertinent to the discussion of existing and future operations at this intersection and
need for mitigation is the construction of the Western Wake Expressway ­ to be open
to traffic by late 2012. This project was not specifically analyzed in this report, due to
the difficulty in accurately assessing the traffic shifts that the new toll facility will cause
for N.C. 55 local and commuter traffic. Based on future 2030 and 2035 traffic forecasts
for the Western Wake facility and for N.C. 55, it is apparent that traffic volume growth
on N.C. 55 will slow from recent levels (even if N.C. 55 has additional capacity as a
continuous 6 lane cross-section), meaning that some traffic is predicted to shift from
N.C. 55 to Western Wake (Western Wake Parkway Traffic Forecast, 2007, MAB ). The
implications of this for the project study area is that by 2014, traffic volumes on N.C. 55


                                              14
                                           Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 320
                                 Wake Memorial Park -- Proposed Residential Development

may not reach the growth levels projected in this analysis, and the actual intersection
operations reported for the N.C. 55/Green Hope School Road intersection may be
better than reported.




                                          15
Appendix A ­ Figures
                         LEGEND

                           Existing
                           Intersections
                           Future
                           Driveway




www.mapquest.com, 2010




     SITE




                         www.googlemaps.com, 2010



                         Town of Cary TAR 320
                           Wake Memorial Park
                    N    Residential Development
                          SITE LOCATION MAP
                  NOT        DATE: August 2010
                  TO
                 SCALE          FIGURE 1
                                      PRELIMINARY SITE PLAN
     NOT     Town of Cary TAR 320
      TO      Wake Memorial Park          DATE: August 2010
N




    SCALE   Residential Development
                                            FIGURE 2
          NOT
   N       TO
         SCALE                                                                                      55
                                                         TAR
                                                         320
                                                         SITE


                 Twyla                                    Site
                 Road                                  Driveway




                                                                                     250'


                                                                                             250'
Green                                      200'
 Hope
School
 Road                                                                                  CTL




                                                                             100'




                                                                                                         250'


                                                                                                                50'
                               Highcroft                               Sears Farm
                                 Drive                                   Road
                                                                                                    55




                           LEGEND                                                   2010 EXISTING LANEAGE
                                                   Town of Cary TAR 320
                            LANEAGE,                                                  DATE: August 2010
                                                    Wake Memorial Park
                         GEOMETRICS, AND
                         TRAFFIC CONTROL          Residential Development
                            AS SHOWN
                                                                                            FIGURE 3
                    NOT
   N                 TO
                   SCALE                                                                                                                        55
                                                                                TAR
                                                                                320
                                                                                SITE


                                 Twyla                                           Site
                                 Road                                         Driveway
                                          5                                                                                            837              2319
                          7
                                         (7)                                                                                          (2401)           (1008)
                         (2)



                                                                                                                             109 721 1 6
            167         1 6                                                                                                                                3 (1)        3
                                                                                       173*                                 (172) (2212) (3) (14)
           (115)       (0) (2)                                 104 (109)#                                       165 (160)                                  0 (0)       (1)
Green                                      4 (6)               46 (117)#
                                                                                      (216)*
                                                                                                                12 (74)                                    0 (0)
 Hope                                      166 (115)@
School                                   136 (146)#                                            201 (108)
 Road       162
                         1 (1)             41 (26)#
                                                            37 78             214*
                                                                                                  7 (15)
                                                                                                               8 83
                                                                                                                               198 (113)                                2
                    161 (148)                                                                                                       0 (0)             100 2118 1       (3)
           (149)                                           (12)# (28)#       (174)*                           (8) (34)
                                                                                                                                 83 (71)             (103) (895) (0)



                                                  87           115                                    19         91                     804             2219
                                                 (143)         (40)                                  (89)       (42)                   (2283)           (998)


                                                      Highcroft                                        Sears Farm
                                                        Drive                                            Road

         # = Adjusted Peak Hour (5:00-6:00 PM)                                                                                                  55
         @ = Balanced Traffic Flow Westbound
         * = Highest Inflow Volume By Direction



                                               LEGEND                                                                  2010 EXISTING PEAK HOUR VOLUMES
                                                                          Town of Cary TAR 320
                                                                                                                                 DATE: August 2010
                                          XXX = AM Peak Hour               Wake Memorial Park
                                                                         Residential Development
                                          (XXX) = PM Peak Hour                                                                       FIGURE 4
                  NOT
   N               TO
                 SCALE                                                                                                                   55
                                                                            TAR
                                                                            320




                                                                                                                                                   2%/YR
                                                                            SITE


                               Twyla                                         Site
                               Road                                       Driveway
                                        6                                                                                       918                2528
                        8
                                       (8)                                                                                     (2615)             (1104)
                       (2)



                      1 7                                                                                              131 779 1 7
          200                                                                                                                                        3 (1)       3
                     (0) (2)                                                       208                                (206) (2389) (3) (17)
         (138)                                              125 (131)                                     198 (192)                                  0 (0)      (1)
Green                                   5 (7)               55 (140)
                                                                                  (271)
                                                                                                          14 (89)                                    0 (0)
 Hope                                   199 (138)
School                                 163 (175)                                          241 (130)
 Road     194
                       1 (1)             49 (31)
                                                          44 94            257
                                                                                             8 (18)
                                                                                                         10 100
                                                                                                                        238 (136)                                2
                  193 (178)                                                                                                  0 (0)             120 2287 1       (3)
         (179)                                           (14) (34)        (209)                         (10) (41)
                                                                                                                         100 (85)             (124) (967) (0)


       5%/YR
                                              104           138                                  22        110                  879                2408
                                             (171)          (48)                                (107)      (51)                (2474)             (1091)


                                                   Highcroft                                      Sears Farm
                                                     Drive                                          Road

                                                                                                                                         55




                                             LEGEND                                                         2014 AMBIENT TRAFFIC GROWTH VOLUMES
                                                                      Town of Cary TAR 320
                                                                                                                           DATE: August 2010
                                       XXX = AM Peak Hour              Wake Memorial Park
                                                                     Residential Development
                                       (XXX) = PM Peak Hour                                                                    FIGURE 5
                 NOT
   N             TO
                SCALE                                                                                                        55
                                                                         TAR
                                                                         320
                                                                         SITE


                            Twyla                                         Site
                            Road                                       Driveway
                                                                                                                      11             36
                                                                                                                     (39)           (21)
   Hilliard
   Forest
                                                                                                               11
          18                                                                     18                           (39)
         (59)                                           18 (59)                 (59)                18 (59)
Green
 Hope                                18 (59)

School                                54 (35)                                          54 (35)
 Road     54                                                            54
                                                                                                               36 (21)
                  54 (35)                                                                                        0 (0)              7
         (35)                                                          (35)
                                                                                                               18 (14)            (20)



                                                                                                                       18            7
                                                                                                                      (14)         (20)


                                                Highcroft                                    Sears Farm
                                                  Drive                                        Road

  HILLIARD FOREST = 100 SINGLE FAMILY HOMES WITH                                                                             55
          90% DISTRIBUTION TO/FROM NC 55



                                         LEGEND                                                     2014 TOTAL BACKGROUND TRAFFIC VOLUMES
                                                                   Town of Cary TAR 320
                                                                                                               DATE: August 2010
                                    XXX = AM Peak Hour              Wake Memorial Park
                                                                  Residential Development
                                    (XXX) = PM Peak Hour                                                             FIGURE 6
                   NOT
   N               TO
                  SCALE                                                                                                                   55
                                                                             TAR
                                                                             320
                                                                             SITE


                                Twyla                                         Site
                                Road                                       Driveway
                                         6                                                                                       929                2564
                         8
                                        (8)                                                                                     (2654)             (1125)
                        (2)



                       1 7                                                                                              142 779 1 7
           218                                                                                                                                       3 (1)        3
                      (0) (2)                                                       226                                (245) (2389) (3) (17)
          (197)                                              143 (190)                                     216 (251)                                 0 (0)       (1)
Green                                    5 (7)               55 (140)
                                                                                   (330)
                                                                                                           14 (89)                                   0 (0)
 Hope                                    217 (197)
School                                  217 (210)                                          295 (165)
 Road      248
                        1 (1)             49 (31)
                                                           44 94            311
                                                                                              8 (18)
                                                                                                          10 100
                                                                                                                         274 (157)                                2
                   247 (213)                                                                                                  0 (0)             127 2287 1       (3)
          (214)                                           (14) (34)        (244)                         (10) (41)
                                                                                                                          118 (99)             (144) (967) (0)



                                               104           138                                  22        110                  897                2415
                                              (171)          (48)                                (107)      (51)                (2488)             (1111)


                                                    Highcroft                                      Sears Farm
                                                      Drive                                          Road

       2014 TRAFFIC WITHOUT SITE = 2014 AMBIENT TRAFFIC                                                                                   55
          GROWTH + 2014 TOTAL BACKGROUND TRAFFIC




                                              LEGEND                                                            2014 TRAFFIC VOLUMES WITHOUT SITE
                                                                       Town of Cary TAR 320
                                                                                                                            DATE: August 2010
                                        XXX = AM Peak Hour              Wake Memorial Park
                                                                      Residential Development
                                        (XXX) = PM Peak Hour                                                                    FIGURE 7
                  NOT
   N               TO
                 SCALE                                                                                                       55
                                                                            TAR
                                                                            320
                                                                            SITE


                           Twyla                                         Site
                           Road                                       Driveway
                                                                                                                     55%            60%
                                                                 100%               100%                            (60%)          (55%)
                                                                (100%)             (100%)


                                                                                                                  55%
          10%                                                    10% 90%                                         (60%)
         (10%)                                        10% (10%) (10%) (90%)                          90% (90%)
Green                                                                                90% (90%)
 Hope                                10% (10%)

School                             10% (10%)                                         90% (90%)
 Road     10%
                                                              10% (10%)                                      60% (55%)
                                                                                                               0% (0%)
         (10%) 10% (10%)                                                                                     30% (35%)
                                                                                                                                   35%
                                                                                                                                  (30%)



                                                                                                                     30%             35%
                                                                                                                    (35%)           (30%)


                                               Highcroft                                     Sears Farm
                                                 Drive                                         Road
 SITE TRIP DISTRIBUTION BASED ON
 EXISTING LOCAL STREET TURNING                                                                                               55
 MOVEMENTS ALONG GREEN HOPE
 SCHOOL ROAD AND TO/FROM NC 55


                                                 LEGEND                                                           2014 SITE TRIP DISTRIBUTION %
                                                                                    Town of Cary TAR 320
                                                                                                                            DATE: August 2010
                                    XX%/XX% = AM Peak Hour Enter/Exit                Wake Memorial Park
                                                                                   Residential Development
                                    (XX%)/(XX%) = PM Peak Hour Enter/Exit                                                     FIGURE 8
                NOT
   N             TO
               SCALE                                                                                                             55
                                                                        TAR
                                                                        320
                                                                        SITE


                         Twyla                                           Site
                         Road                                         Driveway
                                                                                                                         7               24
                                                                40                13                                    (26)            (14)
                                                               (25)              (43)


                                                                                                                   7
          4                                                    4 36                                              (26)
         (2)                                        4 (2)     (2) (23)                                12 (39)
Green                                                                             12 (39)
 Hope                            4 (2)

School                              1 (4)                                               36 (23)
 Road     1
                                                                1 (4)                                           24 (14)
                  1(4)                                                                                            0 (0)                 5
         (4)                                                                                                     12 (9)               (13)



                                                                                                                          12             5
                                                                                                                          (9)           (13)


                                            Highcroft                                         Sears Farm
                                              Drive                                             Road

 SITE TRAFFIC ASSIGNMENT BASED ON                                                                                                55
  TRIP GENERATION DATA X ASSUMED
SITE TRIP DISTRIBUTION PERCENTAGES



                                              LEGEND                                                              2014 SITE TRAFFIC ASSIGNMENT
                                                                                Town of Cary TAR 320
                                                                                                                                DATE: August 2010
                                  XX/XX = AM Peak Hour Enter/Exit                Wake Memorial Park
                                                                               Residential Development
                                 (XX)/(XX) = PM Peak Hour Enter/Exit                                                              FIGURE 9
                  NOT
   N              TO
                 SCALE                                                                                                                        55
                                                                                  TAR
                                                                                  320
                                                                                  SITE


                               Twyla                                            Site
                               Road                                          Driveway
                                        6                                                 13                                         936                2588
                        8                                                 40
                                       (8)                                               (43)                                       (2680)             (1139)
                       (2)                                               (25)



                      1 7                                                                                                   149 779 1 7
          222                                                            4 36                                                                            3 (1)        3
                     (0) (2)                                                                                               (271) (2389) (3) (17)
         (199)                                              147 (192)   (2) (23)                              228 (290)                                  0 (0)       (1)
Green                                   5 (7)               55 (140)                      12 (39)             14 (89)                                    0 (0)
 Hope                                   221 (199)                                         226 (330)
School                                 218 (214)                                           331 (188)
 Road     249
                       1 (1)             49 (31)
                                                          44 94           1 (4)               8 (18)
                                                                                                             10 100
                                                                                                                             298 (171)                                2
                  248 (217)                                          311 (244)                                                    0 (0)             132 2287 1       (3)
         (218)                                           (14) (34)                                          (10) (41)
                                                                                                                             130 (108)             (157) (967) (0)



                                              104           138                                    22          110                   909                2420
                                             (171)          (48)                                 (107)         (51)                 (2497)             (1124)


                                                   Highcroft                                          Sears Farm
                                                     Drive                                              Road

    2014 TRAFFIC WITH SITE = 2014 WITHOUT SITE                                                                                                55
       TRAFFIC + SITE TRAFFIC ASSIGNMENT



                                             LEGEND                                                                     2014 TRAFFIC VOLUMES WITH SITE
                                                                      Town of Cary TAR 320
                                                                                                                                DATE: August 2010
                                       XXX = AM Peak Hour              Wake Memorial Park
                                                                     Residential Development
                                       (XXX) = PM Peak Hour                                                                        FIGURE 10
Appendix B ­ Traffic Count Data
                                                  HNTB North Carolina, P.C.
                                                               343 E. Six Forks Road, Suite 200
                                                                      Raleigh, NC 27609
Intersection:                                                                                      File Name           : Green Hope-Highcroft AM
Date:                                                                                              Site Code           : 00000000
Counters:                                                                                          Start Date          : 7/20/2010
Weather:                                                                                           Page No             :1


                                                           Groups Printed- Unshifted - Bank 1
               GREEN HOPE SCHOOL                 GREEN HOPE SCHOOL                  HIGHCROFT DR                            HIGHCROFT DR
                       Eastbound                         Westbound                       Northbound                           Southbound
Start Time     Left Thru Right Peds App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds    App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
 06:30 AM        0   11     0     0       11       3   10     0     0       13     1     0    2     0           3       0     0    0     0          0          27
 06:45 AM        0   13     1     0       14       4   37     0     0       41     2     0    4     0           6       0     0    0     0          0          61
     Total       0   24     1     0       25       7   47     0     0       54     3     0    6     0           9       0     0    0     0          0          88

 07:00 AM        0    17      2     0      19      2     13        0    0    15      0    0   20     0        20        0    0     0    0           0         54
 07:15 AM        0    16      2     0      18      1     10        0    0    11      1    0    6     0         7        0    0     0    0           0         36
 07:30 AM        0    23      2     0      25      5     17        0    0    22      3    0   10     0        13        0    0     0    0           0         60
 07:45 AM        0    28      5     0      33     14     27        0    0    41      5    0   16     0        21        0    0     0    0           0         95
     Total       0    84     11     0      95     22     67        0    0    89      9    0   52     0        61        0    0     0    0           0        245

 08:00 AM        0    35      3     0      38      9     21        0    0    30      4    0    9     0       13         0    0     0    0           0         81
 08:15 AM        0    38      5     0      43     12     46        0    0    58      5    0   13     0       18         0    0     0    0           0        119
 08:30 AM        0    41     18     0      59      7     21        0    0    28      8    0   21     0       29         0    0     0    0           0        116
 08:45 AM        0    22     15     0      37     18     16        0    0    34     20    0   35     0       55         0    0     0    0           0        126
     Total       0   136     41     0     177     46    104        0    0   150     37    0   78     0      115         0    0     0    0           0        442

 09:00 AM        0   18    5        0      23       9     24       0    0    33       9   0   16     0       25         0    0     0    0           0         81
 09:15 AM        0   17    0        0      17       7     29       0    0    36       1   0    6     0        7         0    0     0    0           0         60
 Grand Total     0 279    58        0     337      91    271       0    0   362      59   0 158      0      217         0    0     0    0           0        916
 Apprch %        0 82.8 17.2        0            25.1   74.9       0    0          27.2   0 72.8     0                  0    0     0    0
  Total %        0 30.5  6.3        0    36.8     9.9   29.6       0    0   39.5    6.4   0 17.2     0     23.7         0    0     0    0           0
 Unshifted       0 260    55        0     315      86    239       0    0    325     58   0 151      0      209         0    0     0    0           0        849
 % Unshifted     0 93.2 94.8        0    93.5    94.5   88.2       0    0   89.8   98.3   0 95.6     0     96.3         0    0     0    0           0       92.7
   Bank 1        0   19    3        0      22       5     32       0    0     37      1   0    7     0        8         0    0     0    0           0         67
 % Bank 1        0  6.8  5.2        0     6.5     5.5   11.8       0    0   10.2    1.7   0  4.4     0      3.7         0    0     0    0           0        7.3
                                                     HNTB North Carolina, P.C.
                                                          343 E. Six Forks Road, Suite 200
                                                                 Raleigh, NC 27609
Intersection:                                                                                File Name        : Green Hope-Highcroft AM
Date:                                                                                        Site Code        : 00000000
Counters:                                                                                    Start Date       : 7/20/2010
Weather:                                                                                     Page No          :2

                                                                     HIGHCROFT DR
                                                                  Out     In    Total
                                                                      0      0      0
                                                                      0      0      0
                                                                      0      0      0


                                                                    0     0          0   0
                                                                    0     0          0   0
                                                                    0     0          0   0
                                                                Right Thru       Left Peds




                                                                                                              GREEN HOPE SCHOOL
                                  612

                                  667
                                   55



                                            0
                                            0
                                            0




                                                                                                 Right Thru
                                Total




                                        Left




                                                                                                                Out
                                                                                                                 437

                                                                                                                 411
                GREEN HOPE SCHOOL




                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                     0



                                                                                                                  26
                                                                             North
                                                    260

                                                    279
                                                     19

                                        Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                        271

                                                                                                        239
                           315

                           337
                            22




                                                                                                         32
                                                                 7/20/2010 06:30 AM
                          In




                                                                                                                       In
                                                                 7/20/2010 09:15 AM




                                                                                                                        362

                                                                                                                        325
                                                                                                                         37
                                                55

                                                58
                                                 3




                                                                                                 Left Peds
                                                                                                   91

                                                                                                   86
                                                                 Unshifted




                                                                                                     5
                    297

                    330
                     33




                                                                 Bank 1
                   Out




                                                                                                                             Total
                                           0
                                           0
                                           0




                                                                                                                              799

                                                                                                                              736
                                                                                                                                63
                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                         0
                                                                 Left  Thru Right Peds
                                                                   58      0  151    0
                                                                     1     0    7    0
                                                                   59      0  158    0


                                                                   141    209         350
                                                                      8     8           16
                                                                   149    217         366
                                                                  Out    In          Total
                                                                  HIGHCROFT DR
                                                   HNTB North Carolina, P.C.
                                                                 343 E. Six Forks Road, Suite 200
Intersection:                                                           Raleigh, NC 27609                                               File Name    : Green Hope-Highcroft AM
Date:                                                                                                                                   Site Code    : 00000000
Counters:                                                                                                                               Start Date   : 7/20/2010
Weather:                                                                                                                                Page No      :3




               GREEN HOPE SCHOOL                  GREEN HOPE SCHOOL                        HIGHCROFT DR                                   HIGHCROFT DR
                         Eastbound                      Westbound                               Northbound                                  Southbound
 Start Time Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds App. Total             Left Thru Right Peds        App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds           App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 06:30 AM to 09:15 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
  08:00 AM      0      35      3     0       38     9  21    0    0    30                 4      0      9      0         13        0         0       0     0           0         81
  08:15 AM      0      38      5     0       43    12  46    0    0    58                 5      0     13      0         18        0         0       0     0           0        119
  08:30 AM      0      41     18     0       59     7  21    0    0    28                 8      0     21      0         29        0         0       0     0           0        116
  08:45 AM      0      22     15     0       37    18  16    0    0    34                20      0     35      0          55       0         0       0     0           0         126
 Total Volume   0 136         41     0      177    46 104    0    0 150                  37      0     78      0       115         0         0       0     0           0        442
 % App. Total      0   76.8   23.2      0          30.7   69.3        0      0          32.2      0   67.8      0                   0        0      0       0
        PHF     .000   .829   .569   .000   .750   .639   .565     .000   .000   .647   .463   .000   .557   .000      .523      .000     .000   .000    .000      .000         .877
    Unshifted      0    127     38      0    165     44     93        0      0    137     36      0     73      0       109         0        0      0       0         0          411
 % Unshifted
    Bank 1        0      9      3      0     12      2   11          0      0     13      1      0      5      0          6        0         0       0     0           0          31
  % Bank 1        0    6.6    7.3      0    6.8    4.3 10.6          0      0    8.7    2.7      0    6.4      0        5.2        0         0       0     0           0         7.0
                                                  HNTB North Carolina, P.C.
                                                             343 E. Six Forks Road, Suite 200
                                                                    Raleigh, NC 27609
Intersection:                                                                                    File Name            : Green Hope-Highcroft PM
Date:                                                                                            Site Code            : 00000000
Counters:                                                                                        Start Date           : 7/20/2010
Weather:                                                                                         Page No              :1


                                                           Groups Printed- Unshifted - Bank 1
               GREEN HOPE SCHOOL                 GREEN HOPE SCHOOL                   HIGHCOFT DR                           HIGHCOFT DR
                       Eastbound                         Westbound                       Northbound                         Southbound
Start Time     Left Thru Right Peds App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds   App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
 03:30 PM        0   20    15     0       35      14   28     0     0       42     1     0     4    0         5        0     0    0     0          0         82
 03:45 PM        0   14     4     0       18      18   25     0     0       43    18     0    27    0        45        0     0    0     0          0        106
     Total       0   34    19     0       53      32   53     0     0       85    19     0    31    0        50        0     0    0     0          0        188

 04:00 PM        0    15      7     0      22     12    26       0    0    38      8    0   22     0         30        0    0     0    0           0         90
 04:15 PM        0    24      2     0      26      5    27       0    0    32      6    0   12     0         18        0    0     0    0           0         76
 04:30 PM        0    23      7     0      30     15    21       0    0    36      6    0   14     0         20        0    0     0    0           0         86
 04:45 PM        0    37      3     0      40     24    32       0    0    56      7    0    7     0         14        0    0     0    0           0        110
     Total       0    99     19     0     118     56   106       0    0   162     27    0   55     0         82        0    0     0    0           0        362

 05:00 PM        0    27      5     0      32     44    35       0    0    79      3    0    6     0          9        0    0     0    0           0        120
 05:15 PM        0    67      4     0      71     31    24       0    0    55      4    0    8     0         12        0    0     0    0           0        138
 05:30 PM        0    26      6     0      32     17    24       0    0    41      1    0    8     0          9        0    0     0    0           0         82
 05:45 PM        0    26     11     0      37     25    26       0    0    51      4    0    6     0         10        0    0     0    0           0         98
     Total       0   146     26     0     172    117   109       0    0   226     12    0   28     0         40        0    0     0    0           0        438

 06:00 PM        0   22    4        0      26      22   25       0    0    47       4   0   15     0        19         0    0     0    0           0        92
 06:15 PM        0   16    4        0      20      19   27       0    0    46       1   0    8     0         9         0    0     0    0           0        75
 Grand Total     0 317    72        0     389     246 320        0    0   566      63   0 137      0       200         0    0     0    0           0      1155
 Apprch %        0 81.5 18.5        0            43.5 56.5       0    0          31.5   0 68.5     0                   0    0     0    0
  Total %        0 27.4  6.2        0    33.7    21.3 27.7       0    0     49    5.5   0 11.9     0      17.3         0    0     0    0           0
 Unshifted       0 299    72        0     371     241 314        0    0    555     59   0 132      0       191         0    0     0    0           0      1117
 % Unshifted     0 94.3 100         0    95.4      98 98.1       0    0   98.1   93.7   0 96.4     0      95.5         0    0     0    0           0      96.7
   Bank 1        0   18    0        0      18       5    6       0    0     11      4   0    5     0         9         0    0     0    0           0        38
 % Bank 1        0  5.7    0        0     4.6       2  1.9       0    0    1.9    6.3   0  3.6     0       4.5         0    0     0    0           0       3.3
                                                     HNTB North Carolina, P.C.
                                                          343 E. Six Forks Road, Suite 200
                                                                 Raleigh, NC 27609
Intersection:                                                                                File Name         : Green Hope-Highcroft PM
Date:                                                                                        Site Code         : 00000000
Counters:                                                                                    Start Date        : 7/20/2010
Weather:                                                                                     Page No           :2

                                                                        HIGHCOFT DR
                                                                  Out        In    Total
                                                                        0       0      0
                                                                        0       0      0
                                                                        0       0      0


                                                                    0     0          0   0
                                                                    0     0          0   0
                                                                    0     0          0   0
                                                                Right Thru       Left Peds




                                                                                                               GREEN HOPE SCHOOL
                                  744

                                  772
                                   28



                                            0
                                            0
                                            0




                                                                                                 Right Thru
                                Total




                                        Left




                                                                                                                 Out
                                                                                                                  454

                                                                                                                  431
                GREEN HOPE SCHOOL




                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                     0



                                                                                                                   23
                                                                             North
                                                    299

                                                    317
                                                     18

                                        Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                        320

                                                                                                        314
                           371

                           389
                            18




                                                                 7/20/2010 03:30 PM
                          In




                                                                                                           6




                                                                                                                        In
                                                                 7/20/2010 06:15 PM




                                                                                                                         566

                                                                                                                         555
                                                                                                                          11
                                                72

                                                72
                                                 0




                                                                                                 Left Peds
                                                                                                  246

                                                                                                  241
                                                                 Unshifted




                                                                                                     5
                    373

                    383
                     10




                                                                 Bank 1
                   Out




                                                                                                                              Total
                                           0
                                           0
                                           0




                                                                                                                              1020

                                                                                                                               986
                                                                                                                                 34
                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                         0
                                                                 Left  Thru Right Peds
                                                                   59      0  132    0
                                                                     4     0    5    0
                                                                   63      0  137    0


                                                                   313    191         504
                                                                      5     9           14
                                                                   318    200         518
                                                                  Out    In          Total
                                                                  HIGHCOFT DR
                                                   HNTB North Carolina, P.C.
                                                                 343 E. Six Forks Road, Suite 200
Intersection:                                                           Raleigh, NC 27609                                               File Name    : Green Hope-Highcroft PM
Date:                                                                                                                                   Site Code    : 00000000
Counters:                                                                                                                               Start Date   : 7/20/2010
Weather:                                                                                                                                Page No      :3




               GREEN HOPE SCHOOL                  GREEN HOPE SCHOOL                         HIGHCOFT DR                                   HIGHCOFT DR
                         Eastbound                      Westbound                               Northbound                                 Southbound
 Start Time Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds App. Total             Left Thru Right Peds        App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds           App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 03:30 PM to 06:15 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:30 PM
  04:30 PM      0      23       7    0       30    15 21     0    0    36                 6      0     14      0          20       0        0        0     0           0         86
  04:45 PM      0      37      3     0       40    24 32     0    0    56                 7      0      7      0         14        0        0        0     0           0        110
  05:00 PM      0      27      5     0       32    44  35    0    0    79                 3      0      6      0          9        0        0        0     0           0        120
  05:15 PM      0      67      4     0       71    31 24     0    0    55                 4      0      8      0         12        0        0        0     0           0         138
 Total Volume   0 154         19     0      173 114 112      0    0 226                  20      0     35      0         55        0        0        0     0           0        454
 % App. Total      0     89     11      0          50.4   49.6        0      0          36.4      0   63.6      0                   0        0      0       0
        PHF     .000   .575   .679   .000   .609   .648   .800     .000   .000   .715   .714   .000   .625   .000      .688      .000     .000   .000    .000      .000         .822
    Unshifted      0    149     19      0    168    114    111        0      0    225     20      0     34      0        54         0        0      0       0         0          447
 % Unshifted
    Bank 1        0      5      0      0      5      0      1        0      0      1      0      0      1      0          1        0        0        0     0           0           7
  % Bank 1        0    3.2      0      0    2.9      0    0.9        0      0    0.4      0      0    2.9      0        1.8        0        0        0     0           0         1.5
                                               HNTB North Carolina, P.C.
                                                           343 E. Six Forks Road, Suite 200
                                                                  Raleigh, NC 27609
Intersection:                                                                                       File Name               : Green Hope-NC 55 AM
Date:                                                                                               Site Code               : 00000000
Counters:                                                                                           Start Date              : 7/21/2010
Weather:                                                                                            Page No                 :1


                                                         Groups Printed- Unshifted - Bank 1
             GREEN HOPE SCHOOL                 GREEN HOPE SCHOOL                   NC 55 HWY                                NC 55 HWY
                     Eastbound                         Westbound                       Northbound                              Southbound
Start Time   Left Thru Right Peds App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds     App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds      App. Total   Int. Total
 06:30 AM     22     0    2     3       27       0     0    0     0        0     7 342      0     0        349         0 128     13     0         141         517
 06:45 AM     26     1    2     7       36       0     1    0     0        1    10 376      0     0        386         0 112     25     1         138         561
     Total    48     1    4    10       63       0     1    0     0        1    17 718      0     0        735         0 240     38     1         279        1078

 07:00 AM     31     0      2    11      44      0     0       0    0     0     19 448         0    0     467          0     121    23    5       149         660
 07:15 AM     34     2      8     5      49      0     0       0    0     0     24 531         0    0     555          0     143    10    0       153         757
 07:30 AM     58     0     13     2      73      0     0       0    0     0     14 567         0    0     581          1     164    21    3       189         843
 07:45 AM     61     0     10     8      79      0     0       0    1     1     25 573         0    0     598          3     183    23    6       215         893
     Total   184     2     33    26     245      0     0       0    1     1     82 2119        0    0    2201          4     611    77   14       706        3153

 08:00 AM     37     0     15    11      63      0     0       0    0     0     26 506         0    0     532          1     194    24    2       221         816
 08:15 AM     55     0      6    11      72      0     0       0    1     1     23 486         1    0     510          2     157    13    4       176         759
 08:30 AM     45     0      6    16      67      0     0       1    0     1     26 553         0    0     579          1     187    30    7       225         872
 08:45 AM     60     0     32     8     100      0     2       0    0     2     27 444         2    0     473          1     157    12    1       171         746
     Total   197     0     59    46     302      0     2       1    1     4    102 1989        3    0    2094          5     695    79   14       793        3193

 09:00 AM      28     0   17   13        58      0    0    0    1         1      25   341       0   0     366           1    140      9    4     154          579
 09:15 AM      26     0    4    9        39      0    0    0    0         0      27   321       0   0     348           1    159     20    7     187          574
 Grand Total 483      3 117 104         707      0    3    1    3         7     253   5488      3   0    5744          11   1845    223   40    2119         8577
 Apprch % 68.3      0.4 16.5 14.7                0 42.9 14.3 42.9               4.4   95.5    0.1   0                 0.5   87.1   10.5  1.9
   Total %    5.6     0  1.4  1.2       8.2      0    0    0    0        0.1    2.9     64      0   0      67         0.1   21.5    2.6  0.5    24.7
  Unshifted 458       3 105 100         666      0    2    1    3          6    222   5288      2   0    5512           9   1666    203   39    1917         8101
 % Unshifted 94.8   100 89.7 96.2      94.2      0 66.7 100 100         85.7   87.7   96.4   66.7   0      96        81.8   90.3     91 97.5    90.5         94.5
    Bank 1     25     0   12    4        41      0    1    0    0          1     31    200      1   0     232           2    179     20    1     202          476
 % Bank 1     5.2     0 10.3  3.8       5.8      0 33.3    0    0       14.3   12.3    3.6   33.3   0       4        18.2    9.7      9  2.5     9.5          5.5
                                                      HNTB North Carolina, P.C.
                                                           343 E. Six Forks Road, Suite 200
                                                                  Raleigh, NC 27609
Intersection:                                                                                 File Name          : Green Hope-NC 55 AM
Date:                                                                                         Site Code          : 00000000
Counters:                                                                                     Start Date         : 7/21/2010
Weather:                                                                                      Page No            :2

                                                                    NC 55 HWY
                                                                   Out      In        Total
                                                                   5747    1917        7664
                                                                    225      202        427
                                                                   5972    2119        8091


                                                                   203 1666           9  39
                                                                    20  179           2   1
                                                                   223 1845         11   40
                                                                 Right Thru       Left Peds




                                                                                                             GREEN HOPE SCHOOL
                                1093

                                1186
                                   93



                                         458

                                         483
                                          25




                                                                                               Right Thru
                                Total




                                        Left




                                                                                                               Out
                GREEN HOPE SCHOOL




                                                                                                   1
                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                   1


                                                                                                                 17

                                                                                                                 14
                                                                                                                   3
                                                                              North
                                                       3
                                                       0
                                                       3
                                        Peds Right Thru
                           666

                           707
                            41




                                                                  7/21/2010 06:30 AM
                          In




                                                                                                         3
                                                                                                         1
                                                                                                         2




                                                                                                                      In
                                                                  7/21/2010 09:15 AM
                                               105

                                               117
                                                12




                                                                                               Left Peds




                                                                                                                         7
                                                                                                                         1
                                                                                                                         6
                                                                  Unshifted




                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                   0
                    427

                    479
                     52




                                                                  Bank 1
                   Out




                                                                                                                            Total
                                         100

                                         104
                                           4




                                                                                                                               24

                                                                                                                               20
                                                                                                                                4
                                                                                                       3
                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                       3
                                                                  Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                   222 5288     2    0
                                                                    31  200     1    0
                                                                   253 5488     3    0


                                                                   1771    5512        7283
                                                                    191      232        423
                                                                   1962    5744        7706
                                                                   Out      In        Total
                                                                    NC 55 HWY
                                                   HNTB North Carolina, P.C.
                                                                 343 E. Six Forks Road, Suite 200
Intersection:                                                           Raleigh, NC 27609                                                  File Name     : Green Hope-NC 55 AM
Date:                                                                                                                                      Site Code     : 00000000
Counters:                                                                                                                                  Start Date    : 7/21/2010
Weather:                                                                                                                                   Page No       :3




               GREEN HOPE SCHOOL                  GREEN HOPE SCHOOL                            NC 55 HWY                                  NC 55 HWY
                         Eastbound                      Westbound                                 Northbound                                 Southbound
 Start Time Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds App. Total             Left Thru Right Peds          App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds          App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 06:30 AM to 09:15 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
  07:45 AM     61        0    10     8       79     0   0    0    1      1               25     573       0      0       598         3     183     23       6       215           893
  08:00 AM     37        0    15    11       63     0   0    0    0     0                26     506       0      0      532          1     194     24       2       221         816
  08:15 AM     55        0     6    11       72     0   0    0    1     1                23     486       1      0      510          2     157     13       4       176         759
  08:30 AM     45        0     6    16       67     0   0    1    0     1                26     553       0      0      579          1     187     30       7       225         872
 Total Volume 198        0    37    46      281     0   0    1    2     3               100 2118          1      0     2219          7     721     90      19       837        3340
 % App. Total   70.5      0   13.2   16.4             0      0     33.3   66.7           4.5     95.4      0      0                 0.8    86.1   10.8     2.3
        PHF     .811   .000   .617   .719   .889   .000   .000     .250   .500   .750   .962     .924   .250   .000      .928      .583    .929   .750    .679      .930         .935
    Unshifted    190      0     34     44    268      0      0        1      2      3     88    2036
 % Unshifted    96.0     0 91.9 95.7        95.4     0      0      100    100    100 88.0 96.1          100      0      95.8 71.4 89.2 86.7 94.7                   88.9         94.0
    Bank 1         8     0    3    2          13     0      0        0      0      0   12   82            0      0       94     2   78   12    1                     93          200
  % Bank 1       4.0     0  8.1  4.3         4.6     0      0        0      0      0 12.0  3.9            0      0       4.2 28.6 10.8 13.3  5.3                   11.1          6.0
                                               HNTB North Carolina, P.C.
                                                           343 E. Six Forks Road, Suite 200
                                                                  Raleigh, NC 27609
Intersection:                                                                                      File Name               : Green Hope-NC 55 PM
Date:                                                                                              Site Code               : 00000000
Counters:                                                                                          Start Date              : 7/21/2010
Weather:                                                                                           Page No                 :1


                                                         Groups Printed- Unshifted - Bank 1
             GREEN HOPE SCHOOL                 GREEN HOPE SCHOOL                   NC 55 HWY                               NC 55 HWY
                     Eastbound                         Westbound                       Northbound                             Southbound
Start Time   Left Thru Right Peds App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds    App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds      App. Total   Int. Total
 03:30 PM     13     0    9     9       31       0     0    0     0        0    28 163      0     0       191         0 268     18     5         291         513
 03:45 PM     24     0   15     8       47       0     0    1     1        2    26 161      1     0       188         3 318     17     2         340         577
     Total    37     0   24    17       78       0     0    1     1        2    54 324      1     0       379         3 586     35     7         631        1090

 04:00 PM     22     0      9    19      50      0     0       0    0     0     33    134     0    0      167         5 352        25    2      384          601
 04:15 PM     15     0     12    21      48      0     0       0    1     1     18    187     1    0      206         2 442        27    3      474          729
 04:30 PM     31     0     16     3      50      0     0       0    0     0     21    230     0    0      251         5 497        25    5      532          833
 04:45 PM     46     0     16     9      71      0     0       0    0     0     36    169     0    0      205         6 537        31   12      586          862
     Total   114     0     53    52     219      0     0       0    1     1    108    720     1    0      829        18 1828      108   22     1976         3025

 05:00 PM     49     0     12    10      71      0     0       0    1     1     25    203     0    0      228        12 588        31   10      641          941
 05:15 PM     26     0     13     7      46      0     0       0    0     0     22    252     0    0      274         1 528        37   12      578          898
 05:30 PM     19     0      5     8      32      0     0       0    0     0     22    215     0    0      237         1 524        42    6      573          842
 05:45 PM     19     0     13     3      35      0     0       0    0     0     34    225     0    0      259         3 572        31    3      609          903
     Total   113     0     43    28     184      0     0       0    1     1    103    895     0    0      998        17 2212      141   31     2401         3584

 06:00 PM     16     0   11   11         38      0     0       0     0    0      29   179      0   0     208           1    492     44    7     544          790
 06:15 PM     23     0    7    5         35      0     0       0     1    1      31   177      0   0     208           5    433     44    9     491          735
 Grand Total 303     0 138 113          554      0     0       1     4    5     325   2295     2   0    2622          44   5551    372   76    6043         9224
 Apprch % 54.7       0 24.9 20.4                 0     0      20    80         12.4   87.5   0.1   0                 0.7   91.9    6.2  1.3
   Total %   3.3     0  1.5  1.2          6      0     0       0     0   0.1    3.5   24.9     0   0    28.4         0.5   60.2      4  0.8    65.5
  Unshifted 291      0 128 108          527      0     0       1     4     5    315   2185     2   0    2502          42   5408    363   74    5887         8921
 % Unshifted  96     0 92.8 95.6       95.1      0     0     100   100   100   96.9   95.2   100   0    95.4        95.5   97.4   97.6 97.4    97.4         96.7
    Bank 1    12     0   10    5         27      0     0       0     0     0     10    110     0   0     120           2    143      9    2     156          303
 % Bank 1      4     0  7.2  4.4        4.9      0     0       0     0     0    3.1    4.8     0   0     4.6         4.5    2.6    2.4  2.6     2.6          3.3
                                                      HNTB North Carolina, P.C.
                                                           343 E. Six Forks Road, Suite 200
                                                                  Raleigh, NC 27609
Intersection:                                                                                 File Name          : Green Hope-NC 55 PM
Date:                                                                                         Site Code          : 00000000
Counters:                                                                                     Start Date         : 7/21/2010
Weather:                                                                                      Page No            :2

                                                                    NC 55 HWY
                                                                   Out      In        Total
                                                                   2477    5887        8364
                                                                    122      156        278
                                                                   2599    6043        8642


                                                                   363 5408         42   74
                                                                     9  143           2   2
                                                                   372 5551         44   76
                                                                 Right Thru       Left Peds




                                                                                                             GREEN HOPE SCHOOL
                                1205

                                1251
                                   46



                                         291

                                         303
                                          12




                                                                                               Right Thru
                                Total




                                        Left




                                                                                                               Out
                GREEN HOPE SCHOOL




                                                                                                   1
                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                   1


                                                                                                                 46

                                                                                                                 44
                                                                                                                   2
                                                                              North
                                                       0
                                                       0
                                                       0
                                        Peds Right Thru
                           527

                           554
                            27




                                                                  7/21/2010 03:30 PM
                          In




                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                         0




                                                                                                                      In
                                                                  7/21/2010 06:15 PM
                                               128

                                               138
                                                10




                                                                                               Left Peds




                                                                                                                         5
                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                         5
                                                                  Unshifted




                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                   0
                    678

                    697
                     19




                                                                  Bank 1
                   Out




                                                                                                                            Total
                                         108

                                         113
                                           5




                                                                                                                               51

                                                                                                                               49
                                                                                                                                2
                                                                                                       4
                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                       4
                                                                  Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                   315 2185     2    0
                                                                    10  110     0    0
                                                                   325 2295     2    0


                                                                   5536    2502        8038
                                                                    153      120        273
                                                                   5689    2622        8311
                                                                   Out      In        Total
                                                                    NC 55 HWY
                                                   HNTB North Carolina, P.C.
                                                                 343 E. Six Forks Road, Suite 200
Intersection:                                                           Raleigh, NC 27609                                                  File Name    : Green Hope-NC 55 PM
Date:                                                                                                                                      Site Code    : 00000000
Counters:                                                                                                                                  Start Date   : 7/21/2010
Weather:                                                                                                                                   Page No      :3




               GREEN HOPE SCHOOL                  GREEN HOPE SCHOOL                            NC 55 HWY                                 NC 55 HWY
                         Eastbound                      Westbound                                 Northbound                                Southbound
 Start Time Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds App. Total             Left Thru Right Peds         App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds         App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 03:30 PM to 06:15 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
  05:00 PM     49        0    12    10       71     0   0    0    1      1               25     203      0      0       228        12     588     31      10      641           941
  05:15 PM     26        0    13     7       46     0   0    0    0     0                22     252      0      0       274         1 528         37      12     578          898
  05:30 PM     19        0     5     8       32     0   0    0    0     0                22     215      0      0       237         1 524         42       6     573          842
  05:45 PM     19        0    13     3       35     0   0    0    0     0                34     225      0      0       259         3 572         31       3     609          903
 Total Volume 113        0    43    28      184     0   0    0    1     1               103     895      0      0       998        17 2212       141      31    2401         3584
 % App. Total   61.4      0   23.4   15.2             0      0        0    100          10.3    89.7      0      0                 0.7    92.1    5.9    1.3
        PHF     .577   .000   .827   .700   .648   .000   .000     .000   .250   .250   .757    .888   .000   .000      .911      .354    .940   .839   .646      .936         .952
    Unshifted    109      0     41     28    178      0      0        0      1      1    102     863      0      0       965        17   2166
 % Unshifted    96.5     0 95.3      100    96.7     0      0        0    100    100 99.0 96.4           0      0      96.7       100 97.9 97.2 96.8             97.9         97.5
    Bank 1         4     0    2        0       6     0      0        0      0      0    1   32           0      0       33          0   46    4    1               51           90
  % Bank 1       3.5     0  4.7        0     3.3     0      0        0      0      0  1.0  3.6           0      0       3.3         0  2.1  2.8  3.2              2.1          2.5
                                                  HNTB North Carolina, P.C.
                                                               343 E. Six Forks Road, Suite 200
                                                                      Raleigh, NC 27609
Intersection:                                                                                File Name               : Green Hope-Sears Farm AM
Date:                                                                                        Site Code               : 00000000
Counters:                                                                                    Start Date              : 7/22/2010
Weather:                                                                                     Page No                 :1


                                                           Groups Printed- Unshifted - Bank 1
               GREEN HOPE SCHOOL                 GREEN HOPE SCHOOL                 SEARS FARM RD                        SEARS FARM RD
                       Eastbound                         Westbound                       Northbound                          Southbound
Start Time     Left Thru Right Peds App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds   App. Total    Left Thru Right Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
 06:30 AM        0   11     0     0       11       0     6    0     0        6     0     0     5    0         5         0     0    0     0          0          22
 06:45 AM        0   18     0     0       18       2   13     0     0       15     0     0    14    0        14         0     0    0     0          0          47
     Total       0   29     0     0       29       2   19     0     0       21     0     0    19    0        19         0     0    0     0          0          69

 07:00 AM        0    19      0     0      19      0     10        0    0    10     2    0   12    0         14         0    0     0    0           0         43
 07:15 AM        0    32      1     0      33      2     23        0    0    25     2    0   23    0         25         0    0     0    0           0         83
 07:30 AM        0    33      0     0      33      1     43        0    0    44     1    0   22    0         23         0    0     0    0           0        100
 07:45 AM        0    42      0     0      42      4     33        0    0    37     0    0   17    0         17         0    0     0    0           0         96
     Total       0   126      1     0     127      7    109        0    0   116     5    0   74    0         79         0    0     0    0           0        322

 08:00 AM        0    36      2     0      38      1     32        0    0    33     1    0   19    0         20         0    0     0    0           0         91
 08:15 AM        0    41      2     0      43      0     40        0    0    40     0    0   17    0         17         0    0     0    0           0        100
 08:30 AM        0    52      1     0      53      6     40        0    0    46     4    0   20    0         24         0    0     0    0           0        123
 08:45 AM        0    72      2     0      74      5     53        0    0    58     3    0   27    0         30         0    0     0    0           0        162
     Total       0   201      7     0     208     12    165        0    0   177     8    0   83    0         91         0    0     0    0           0        476

 09:00 AM        0   42      1      0      43       1     26       0    0    27      1   0    9    0        10          0    0     0    0           0        80
 09:15 AM        0   25      0      0      25       5     21       0    0    26      0   0   14    0        14          0    0     0    0           0        65
 Grand Total     0 423       9      0     432      27    340       0    0   367     14   0 199     0       213          0    0     0    0           0      1012
 Apprch %        0 97.9    2.1      0             7.4   92.6       0    0          6.6   0 93.4    0                    0    0     0    0
  Total %        0 41.8    0.9      0    42.7     2.7   33.6       0    0   36.3   1.4   0 19.7    0        21          0    0     0    0           0
 Unshifted       0 400       9      0     409      25    303       0    0    328    14   0 198     0       212          0    0     0    0           0        949
 % Unshifted     0 94.6    100      0    94.7    92.6   89.1       0    0   89.4   100   0 99.5    0      99.5          0    0     0    0           0       93.8
   Bank 1        0   23      0      0      23       2     37       0    0     39     0   0    1    0         1          0    0     0    0           0         63
 % Bank 1        0  5.4      0      0     5.3     7.4   10.9       0    0   10.6     0   0  0.5    0       0.5          0    0     0    0           0        6.2
                                                     HNTB North Carolina, P.C.
                                                          343 E. Six Forks Road, Suite 200
                                                                 Raleigh, NC 27609
Intersection:                                                                                File Name     : Green Hope-Sears Farm AM
Date:                                                                                        Site Code     : 00000000
Counters:                                                                                    Start Date    : 7/22/2010
Weather:                                                                                     Page No       :2

                                                                 SEARS FARM RD
                                                                 Out     In    Total
                                                                     0      0      0
                                                                     0      0      0
                                                                     0      0      0


                                                                    0     0          0   0
                                                                    0     0          0   0
                                                                    0     0          0   0
                                                                Right Thru       Left Peds




                                                                                                                GREEN HOPE SCHOOL
                                  726

                                  786
                                   60



                                            0
                                            0
                                            0




                                                                                                   Right Thru
                                Total




                                        Left




                                                                                                                  Out
                                                                                                                   622

                                                                                                                   598
                GREEN HOPE SCHOOL




                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                       0



                                                                                                                    24
                                                                             North
                                                    400

                                                    423
                                                     23

                                        Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                          340

                                                                                                          303
                           409

                           432
                            23




                                                                                                           37
                                                                 7/22/2010 06:30 AM
                          In




                                                                                                                         In
                                                                 7/22/2010 09:15 AM




                                                                                                                          367

                                                                                                                          328
                                                                                                                           39
                                                 9
                                                 0
                                                 9




                                                                                                   Left Peds
                                                                                                     27

                                                                                                     25
                                                                 Unshifted




                                                                                                       2
                    317

                    354
                     37




                                                                 Bank 1
                   Out




                                                                                                                               Total
                                           0
                                           0
                                           0




                                                                                                                                989

                                                                                                                                926
                                                                                                                                  63
                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                           0
                                                                 Left  Thru Right Peds
                                                                   14      0  198    0
                                                                     0     0    1    0
                                                                   14      0  199    0


                                                                   34     212   246
                                                                     2      1      3
                                                                   36     213   249
                                                                 Out     In    Total
                                                                 SEARS FARM RD
                                                   HNTB North Carolina, P.C.
                                                                 343 E. Six Forks Road, Suite 200
Intersection:                                                           Raleigh, NC 27609                                          File Name    : Green Hope-Sears Farm AM
Date:                                                                                                                              Site Code    : 00000000
Counters:                                                                                                                          Start Date   : 7/22/2010
Weather:                                                                                                                           Page No      :3




               GREEN HOPE SCHOOL                  GREEN HOPE SCHOOL                       SEARS FARM RD                            SEARS FARM RD
                         Eastbound                      Westbound                               Northbound                              Southbound
 Start Time Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds App. Total             Left Thru Right Peds        App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds         App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 06:30 AM to 09:15 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
  08:00 AM      0      36       2    0       38     1  32    0    0    33                 1      0     19      0         20        0      0       0      0           0         91
  08:15 AM      0      41      2     0       43     0  40    0    0    40                 0      0     17      0         17        0      0       0      0           0        100
  08:30 AM      0      52      1     0       53     6  40    0    0    46                 4      0     20      0         24        0      0       0      0           0        123
  08:45 AM      0      72      2     0       74     5  53    0    0    58                 3      0     27      0          30       0      0       0      0           0         162
 Total Volume   0 201          7     0      208    12 165    0    0 177                   8      0     83      0         91        0      0       0      0           0        476
 % App. Total      0   96.6    3.4      0           6.8   93.2        0      0           8.8      0   91.2      0                   0      0       0      0
        PHF     .000   .698   .875   .000   .703   .500   .778     .000   .000   .763   .500   .000   .769   .000      .758      .000   .000    .000   .000      .000         .735
    Unshifted      0    190      7      0    197     11    149        0      0    160      8      0     83      0        91         0      0       0      0         0          448
 % Unshifted
    Bank 1        0     11      0      0     11      1     16        0      0     17      0      0      0      0           0       0      0       0      0           0          28
  % Bank 1        0    5.5      0      0    5.3    8.3    9.7        0      0    9.6      0      0      0      0           0       0      0       0      0           0         5.9
                                                  HNTB North Carolina, P.C.
                                                             343 E. Six Forks Road, Suite 200
                                                                    Raleigh, NC 27609
Intersection:                                                                                File Name               : Green Hope-Sears Farm PM
Date:                                                                                        Site Code               : 00000000
Counters:                                                                                    Start Date              : 7/22/2010
Weather:                                                                                     Page No                 :1


                                                           Groups Printed- Unshifted - Bank 1
               GREEN HOPE SCHOOL                 GREEN HOPE SCHOOL                 SEARS FARMA RD                       SEARS FARMA RD
                       Eastbound                         Westbound                       Northbound                          Southbound
Start Time     Left Thru Right Peds App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds   App. Total    Left Thru Right Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
 03:30 PM        0   20     1     0       21       9   46     0     0       55     1     0     3    0         4         0     0    0     0          0         80
 03:45 PM        0   45     4     0       49       9   30     0     0       39     2     0     7    0         9         0     0    0     0          0         97
     Total       0   65     5     0       70      18   76     0     0       94     3     0    10    0        13         0     0    0     0          0        177

 04:00 PM        0    44      2     0      46      9    37       0    0    46      2    0   12     0         14         0    0     0    0           0        106
 04:15 PM        0    33      3     0      36      9    29       0    0    38      0    0   12     0         12         0    0     0    0           0         86
 04:30 PM        0    24      2     0      26     18    40       0    0    58      3    0    9     0         12         0    0     0    0           0         96
 04:45 PM        0    24      2     0      26     17    33       0    0    50      1    0    7     0          8         0    0     0    0           0         84
     Total       0   125      9     0     134     53   139       0    0   192      6    0   40     0         46         0    0     0    0           0        372

 05:00 PM        0    28      5     0      33     14    30       0    0    44      2    0   11     0         13         0    0     0    0           0         90
 05:15 PM        0    28      0     0      28     30    42       0    0    72      2    0    6     0          8         0    0     0    0           0        108
 05:30 PM        0    22      2     0      24      9    53       0    0    62      2    0    6     0          8         0    0     0    0           0         94
 05:45 PM        0    30      8     0      38     21    35       0    0    56      2    0   11     0         13         0    0     0    0           0        107
     Total       0   108     15     0     123     74   160       0    0   234      8    0   34     0         42         0    0     0    0           0        399

 06:00 PM        0   27    2        0      29      20   31       0    0    51       2   0    5     0         7          0    0     0    0           0        87
 06:15 PM        0   24    2        0      26      21   37       0    0    58       0   0   10     0        10          0    0     0    0           0        94
 Grand Total     0 349    33        0     382     186 443        0    0   629      19   0   99     0       118          0    0     0    0           0      1129
 Apprch %        0 91.4  8.6        0            29.6 70.4       0    0          16.1   0 83.9     0                    0    0     0    0
  Total %        0 30.9  2.9        0    33.8    16.5 39.2       0    0   55.7    1.7   0  8.8     0      10.5          0    0     0    0           0
 Unshifted       0 323    31        0     354     186 423        0    0    609     19   0   99     0       118          0    0     0    0           0      1081
 % Unshifted     0 92.6 93.9        0    92.7     100 95.5       0    0   96.8    100   0 100      0       100          0    0     0    0           0      95.7
   Bank 1        0   26    2        0      28       0   20       0    0     20      0   0    0     0         0          0    0     0    0           0        48
 % Bank 1        0  7.4  6.1        0     7.3       0  4.5       0    0    3.2      0   0    0     0         0          0    0     0    0           0       4.3
                                                 HNTB North Carolina, P.C.
                                                             343 E. Six Forks Road, Suite 200
                                                                    Raleigh, NC 27609
Intersection:                                                                                           File Name             : Green Hope-Twyla AM
Date:                                                                                                   Site Code             : 00000000
Counters:                                                                                               Start Date            : 7/15/2010
Weather:                                                                                                Page No               :1


                                                           Groups Printed- Unshifted - Bank 1
               GREEN HOPE SCHOOL                 GREEN HOPE SCHOOL                   TWYLA RD                                TWYLA RD
                       Eastbound                         Westbound                       Northbound                            Southbound
Start Time     Left Thru Right Peds App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds    App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds    App. Total   Int. Total
 06:30 AM        0     6    0     0        6       0     5    0     0        5     0     0    0     0           0       2     0    0     0           2          13
 06:45 AM        0     9    0     0        9       0   12     0     0       12     0     0    0     0           0       1     0    1     0           2          23
     Total       0   15     0     0       15       0   17     0     0       17     0     0    0     0           0       3     0    1     0           4          36

 07:00 AM        0    32      0     0      32      0    13       0    0    13     0     0    0     0            0       1       0    0    0          1         46
 07:15 AM        0    11      0     0      11      0    19       0    0    19     0     0    0     0            0       1       0    0    0          1         31
 07:30 AM        0    28      0     0      28      0    29       2    0    31     0     0    0     0            0       2       0    0    0          2         61
 07:45 AM        0    23      0     0      23      0    31       0    0    31     0     0    0     0            0       3       0    0    0          3         57
     Total       0    94      0     0      94      0    92       2    0    94     0     0    0     0            0       7       0    0    0          7        195

 08:00 AM        0    35      0     0      35      0    26       0    0    26     0     0    0     0            0       0       0    0    0          0         61
 08:15 AM        0    42      0     0      42      0    28       1    0    29     0     0    0     0            0       1       0    0    0          1         72
 08:30 AM        1    41      0     0      42      0    36       1    0    37     0     0    0     0            0       2       0    0    0          2         81
 08:45 AM        0    48      0     0      48      0    59       1    0    60     0     0    0     0            0       2       0    1    0          3        111
     Total       1   166      0     0     167      0   149       3    0   152     0     0    0     0            0       5       0    1    0          6        325

 09:00 AM        0     30     0     0      30      0     43    1      0    44     0     0    0     0            0        1      0     0   0         1          75
 09:15 AM        1     19     0     0      20      0     41    0      0    41     0     0    0     0            0        2      0     0   0         2          63
 Grand Total     2    324     0     0     326      0    342    6      0   348     0     0    0     0            0       18      0     2   0        20         694
 Apprch %      0.6   99.4     0     0              0   98.3  1.7      0           0     0    0     0                    90      0    10   0
  Total %      0.3   46.7     0     0      47      0   49.3  0.9      0   50.1    0     0    0     0            0      2.6      0   0.3   0       2.9
 Unshifted       0    291     0     0     291      0    287    5      0    292    0     0    0     0            0       16      0     2   0        18         601
 % Unshifted     0   89.8     0     0    89.3      0   83.9 83.3      0   83.9    0     0    0     0            0     88.9      0   100   0        90        86.6
   Bank 1        2     33     0     0      35      0     55    1      0     56    0     0    0     0            0        2      0     0   0         2          93
 % Bank 1      100   10.2     0     0    10.7      0   16.1 16.7      0   16.1    0     0    0     0            0     11.1      0     0   0        10        13.4
                                                 HNTB North Carolina, P.C.
                                                             343 E. Six Forks Road, Suite 200
                                                                    Raleigh, NC 27609
Intersection:                                                                                           File Name             : Green Hope-Twyla PM
Date:                                                                                                   Site Code             : 00000000
Counters:                                                                                               Start Date            : 7/15/2010
Weather:                                                                                                Page No               :1


                                                           Groups Printed- Unshifted - Bank 1
               GREEN HOPE SCHOOL                 GREEN HOPE SCHOOL                   TWYLA RD                                TWYLA RD
                       Eastbound                         Westbound                       Northbound                            Southbound
Start Time     Left Thru Right Peds App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds    App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
 03:30 PM        0   23     0     0       23       0   22     1     0       23     0     0    0     0           0       1     0    0     0          1         47
 03:45 PM        1   26     0     0       27       0   52     0     0       52     0     0    0     0           0       0     0    0     0          0         79
     Total       1   49     0     0       50       0   74     1     0       75     0     0    0     0           0       1     0    0     0          1        126

 04:00 PM        1    30      0     0      31      0    57       0    0    57     0     0    0     0            0       0       0    0   0          0         88
 04:15 PM        0    30      0     0      30      0    50       0    0    50     0     0    0     0            0       0       0    0   0          0         80
 04:30 PM        1    34      0     0      35      0    54       3    0    57     0     0    0     0            0       2       0    0   0          2         94
 04:45 PM        0    31      0     0      31      0    58       1    0    59     0     0    0     0            0       0       0    0   0          0         90
     Total       2   125      0     0     127      0   219       4    0   223     0     0    0     0            0       2       0    0   0          2        352

 05:00 PM        0    24      0     0      24      0    78       1    0    79     0     0    0     0            0       0       0    1   0          1        104
 05:15 PM        0    30      0     0      30      0    89       1    0    90     0     0    0     0            0       2       0    0   0          2        122
 05:30 PM        0    31      0     0      31      0   103       2    0   105     0     0    0     0            0       0       0    0   0          0        136
 05:45 PM        0    30      0     0      30      0    85       0    0    85     0     0    0     0            0       0       0    0   0          0        115
     Total       0   115      0     0     115      0   355       4    0   359     0     0    0     0            0       2       0    1   0          3        477

 06:00 PM        1   44       0     0      45      0   74        0    0    74     0     0    0     0            0        1      0    0   0          1       120
 06:15 PM        0   43       0     0      43      0   76        4    0    80     0     0    0     0            0        1      0    0   0          1       124
 Grand Total     4 376        0     0     380      0 798        13    0   811     0     0    0     0            0        7      0    1   0          8      1199
 Apprch %      1.1 98.9       0     0              0 98.4      1.6    0           0     0    0     0                  87.5      0 12.5   0
  Total %      0.3 31.4       0     0    31.7      0 66.6      1.1    0   67.6    0     0    0     0            0      0.6      0  0.1   0      0.7
 Unshifted       4 348        0     0     352      0 777        13    0    790    0     0    0     0            0        7      0    1   0        8        1150
 % Unshifted   100 92.6       0     0    92.6      0 97.4      100    0   97.4    0     0    0     0            0      100      0 100    0      100        95.9
   Bank 1        0   28       0     0      28      0   21        0    0     21    0     0    0     0            0        0      0    0   0        0          49
 % Bank 1        0  7.4       0     0     7.4      0  2.6        0    0    2.6    0     0    0     0            0        0      0    0   0        0         4.1
